[1] Yunlong Li,Yunfei Wang,Tangfeng Feng ,等.Bridging microscale magnetic domain dynamics and macroscopic electromagnetic response in magnetic fibers: A micromagnetic simulation study[J].Journal of Alloys and Compounds,2025,1041 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Magnetic fibers are promising candidates for smart sensing and electromagnetic composites due to their tunable electromagnetic properties governed by unique magnetic domain structure under external stimuli. This study presents a multiscale computational framework developed using the Micromagnetic Simulation module in COMSOL Multiphysics to investigate the interplay between stress and magnetic response in Co-based magnetic fibers. By coupling micromagnetic simulation with time- and frequency-domain analysis, we reveal how tensile stress modulates the magnetic domain configurations and alters the electromagnetic response. The results demonstrate pronounced stress-magnetoelastic coupling, wherein tensile stress reduces axial magnetization while enhancing circumferential alignment, directly altering ferromagnetic resonance (FMR) characteristics. We further identify a stress-magnetostriction coupling coefficient that manipulates the FMR response to applied stress. Experimental validation through magnetization measurements, magneto-optical Kerr microscopy and impedance measurements supports the simulation predictions. This work provides fundamental insights into magneto-mechanical interactions in magnetic fibers and also provides a computational framework for designing stress-tunable materials optimized for high-frequency applications in sensors, electromagnetic composites, and multifunctional devices.
[2] Wei Sun,Shicheng Bao,Jianfeng Zhou ,等.Concurrent multiscale analysis of anti-seepage structures in embankment dam based on the nonlinear Arlequin method[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2023,149 :231-247,Elsevier Science
摘要：The scales of embankment dam and local anti-seepage structures (core wall or cut-off wall) differ heavily, which poses challenges to analyze both the global and local responses simultaneously. In this study, the nonlinear Arlequin method is introduced to evaluate the behavior of anti-seepage structures in embankment dam within a concurrent multiscale framework. Based on the energy blending approach, the governing equations are deduced, in which the material nonlinearity effect and the Arlequin coupling effect can be separated from each other. Then, a list of subroutines of ABAQUS is used to implement the proposed framework jointly. Multiscale analysis of elasto-plastic cantilever beam demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed method. The effects of coupling operators are discussed, and constant weighting functions are recommended for nonlinear coupling analysis. The analyses of embankment dams indicate that the uneven settlement pattern and the resulted arching effect between the core and the shell as well as the complicated bending deformation state of cut-off wall can be well captured by the proposed method. It is affirmed that the nonlinear Arlequin method facilitates the increase of computational efficiency without losing much accuracy, showing great merits of modeling local nonlinearity and global response simultaneously under a concurrent multiscale framework. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[3] Jinpeng Yang,Leijiang Yao,Xueqi Jiang ,等.Multi-scale analysis of braided C/SiC composite bolted joint using the material damage penalty version of Arlequin method[J].Composite Structures,2026,384 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The braided C/SiC composite bolted joints are widely employed in thermal structures. Evaluating their connection strength and damage processes is critical for assuring structural dependability and service life. A multi-scale finite element analysis (FEA) model was presented for studying problems related to the progressive damage evolution of braided composite bolted joints. On the basis of global–local strategy, representative volume element (RVE) models at different scales were established for various regions, models are coupled with each other. The Arlequin method was used to ensure the stress continuity between the mesoscopic and macroscopic regions. In <em>trans</em>-scale region, a unified energy release assumption was proposed to define the impact of damage on various scales. The material damage penalty version of Arlequin method was established, which allows <em>trans</em>-scale progressive damage parallel analysis of multi-scale composite models. The feasibility of the multi-scale coupling method was demonstrated by experimental results. The relative error between the ultimate strength obtained from simulation and experiment is 9.6%. Both the experimental and simulation results indicate that the failure process of the bolted joint includes three distinct stages: linear elastic, pseudo-yielding, and rapid fracture. The progressive damage evolution can also be detailly distinguished by the FEA result in the <em>meso</em>-scale region.
[4] 安敏,西芸,姚宏康 ,等.气液固浆态床中颗粒-湍流涡-气泡的多尺度耦合机制[J].化工学报,2026,77 (2):561-578
摘要：相较于气液鼓泡塔,气液固浆态床内颗粒的引入会使得反应器的流动及传递过程发生显著变化。广泛应用于气液鼓泡塔流动行为预测的多流体模型和群平衡模型,在模拟浆态床时准确性缺失,其原因在于浆态床内颗粒-湍流-气泡的多尺度耦合机制更为复杂,但尚未得到深入研究。以颗粒-湍流、气泡-湍流和颗粒-气泡的两两相互作用作为主要内容,综述了基于直接数值/大涡模拟或小尺度实验的颗粒-湍流-气泡的底层微介观耦合机制的研究进展。重点关注了颗粒和气泡对湍流场能谱结构和湍流特征参量的影响机制,探讨了湍流特性与介尺度的颗粒团聚物及气泡聚并/破碎行为的关联,论述了颗粒对气泡动力学的影响,提出了主要结论和未来研究建议。
[5] Feng, Deluan,Lin, Zixin,Luo, Zhicheng ,等.Theoretical and experimental study on multiscale coupling shear strength of soil-rock mixture[J].Environmental Earth Sciences,2026,85 (6):144-144,SPRINGER
摘要：Soil-rock mixture (S-RM) is a natural geomaterial characterized by multiple grain size grades and pronounced trans-scale hierarchical features. To investigate the multiscale coupling shear strength of S-RM, the material is decomposed into a soil matrix and rock blocks based on the deformation characteristics of mineral particles at different scales. A multiscale soil-rock cell element model is proposed. Moreover, three groups of in situ large-scale direct shear tests were conducted on S-RM samples with varying rock block contents to calibrate the microscale parameters of the model. The results show that rock blocks significantly affect the mechanical behavior of S-RM. The trans-scale, coordinated deformation between the soil matrix and rock blocks induces strain gradients at the mesoscale and microcrack coordination at the microscale, particularly at the matrix-block interfaces. This interaction leads to increased energy release at the macroscale compared with that of the pure soil matrix. This phenomenon constitutes the multiscale physical mechanism underlying the shear strength enhancement due to rock blocks. The proposed model accurately predicts the shear strength of S-RM, consistent with experimental observations.
[6] Alkhateeb, Ayman,Gnutti, Alessandro,Guerrini, Fabrizio ,等.JPEG AI Compressed Domain Face Detection: A Multi-Scale Bridging Perspective[J].IEEE Transactions on Multimedia,2026,28 :2059-2068,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Learning-based image coding is showing improved compression efficiency, while also offering a novel advantage in enabling computer vision tasks directly within the compressed domain. The latent representation created by deep learning methods inherently contains all visual features, without a computationally expensive synthesis process at the decoder. This paper is an invited extension of a previous solution for JPEG AI compressed domain face detection that adapts a RetinaFace-based detector to operate directly on the latent tensor. In addition to a former single-scale bridging solution, this work provides a novel multi-scale bridging architecture to enable a more effective multi-scale compressed domain face detection. The results show a significant performance gain, improving accuracy up to 20% for detection of tiny faces on the WIDER FACE dataset compared to single-scale bridging, and further narrowing the gap when compared to detection on uncompressed or JPEG AI decoded images. Furthermore, since the computationally expensive decoding step is bypassed and since the bridges consist of lower-complexity networks, the overall processing cost is significantly reduced. Single and multi-scale bridging, respectively, have about 10% and 32% the complexity of applying pixel domain face detection on decoded images. The proposed architecture is expected to be extended to other multiscale sensitive vision tasks, as JPEG AI is not specifically designed for any single downstream application.
[7] Dong, Hao,Yang, Zongze,Nie, Yufeng .HIGHER-ORDER MULTISCALE METHOD AND ITS CONVERGENCE ANALYSIS FOR NONLINEAR THERMO-ELECTRIC COUPLING PROBLEMS OF COMPOSITE STRUCTURES[J].Multiscale Modeling & Simulation,2025,23 (4):1744-1772,SIAM PUBLICATIONS
摘要：This study proposes a higher-order multiscale computational method tailored for nonlinear thermo-electric coupling problems of composite structures, which possess temperature-dependent material properties and a nonlinear Joule heating effect. The innovative advancements of this work are the establishment of a high-accuracy multiscale formulation incorporating higher-order correction terms for periodic composite structures, along with a global error estimation that provides an explicit convergence rate for higher-order multiscale solutions. By employing the multiscale asymptotic approach and the Taylor series technique, the higher-order multiscale method is established for time-dependent nonlinear thermo-electric coupling problems, which can maintain the local balance of heat quantity and electric charge enabling high-accuracy multiscale simulation. Furthermore, an efficient numerical algorithm featuring with off-line and on-line stages is presented meticulously, and corresponding convergent analysis is also obtained. A three-dimensional numerical experiment is conducted to showcase the competitive advantages of the proposed method for simulating the time-dependent nonlinear thermo-electric coupling problems in composite structures, demonstrating not only exceptional numerical accuracy, but also reduced computational cost.
[8] Xiaolin Li,Xinyue Li,Liming Zhou ,等.Coupling Magneto-Electro-Elastic Multiscale Finite Element Method for Transient Responses of Heterogeneous MEE Structures[J].Computers, Materials & Continua,2025,82 (3):3821-3841,Tech Science Press
摘要：Magneto-electro-elastic(MEE)materials are widely utilized across various fields due to their multi-field coupling ***,investigating the coupling behavior of MEE composite materials is of significant *** traditional finite element method(FEM)remains one of the primary approaches for addressing such ***,the application of FEM typically necessitates the use of a fine finite element mesh to accurately capture the heterogeneous properties of the materials and meet the required computational precision,which inevitably leads to a reduction in computational *** enhance the computational accuracy and efficiency of the FEM for heterogeneous multi-field coupling problems,this study presents the coupling magneto-electro-elastic multiscale finite element method(CM-MsFEM)for heterogeneous MEE *** the conventional multiscale FEM(MsFEM),the proposed algorithm simultaneously constructs displacement,electric,and magnetic potential multiscale basis functions to address the heterogeneity of the corresponding *** macroscale formulation of CM-MsFEM was derived,and the macroscale/microscale responses of the problems were obtained through up/downscaling *** using numerical examples analyzing the transient behavior of heterogeneous MEE structures demonstrated that the proposed method outperforms traditional FEM in terms of both accuracy and computational efficiency,making it an appropriate choice for numerically modeling the dynamics of heterogeneous MEE structures.
[9] 杜雁霞,杨肖峰,肖光明 ,等.高超声速飞行器多尺度耦合热效应预测研究进展[J].中国科学：技术科学,2024,54 (7):1288-1304
摘要：随着未来临近空间高超声速飞行器更高速度、更长航时服役新需求的提出,飞行器多尺度耦合热效应日趋显著,并成为影响飞行热安全的重要因素.针对飞行器高温表面、高温结构、舱内仪器/设备等涉及的热现象,综述了多尺度耦合热效应预测方法的研究进展.结合未来飞行器精细化、低冗余设计需求,进一步提出了后续研究的重点方向.飞行器耦合热效应研究需从关注“宏观量”拓展到关注影响内禀特性的微细观“隐变量”,跨尺度关联应注重“降尺度”与“升尺度”的协同,同时还需进一步发展弱化人工经验、消除人为边界的数理模型与自适应方法.相关研究将为飞行器热行为的精细预测及高效防护提供参考.
[10] 李孜,杨庆成 .基于双线性插值的多尺度耦合一致性与收敛性研究[J].力学季刊,2025,46 (3):631-648
摘要：界面一致性与误差收敛性是并发多尺度计算方法中的核心问题,尤其在原子-连续介质耦合模型中尤为关键.然而,现有理论研究工作较少并且多聚焦于一维情况.本文以多分辨率分子力学方法为研究对象,通过构建原子区域与粗化区域共存的二维方形与三角形原子晶格模型,系统探究了双线性单元插值条件下不同能量采样方案对界面一致性和误差收敛性的影响.研究发现:界面次采样方案可显著提升界面区域一致性,其中包含所有近邻层的采样方案性能最优;误差分析结果显示,离散误差是总误差的主要来源,增加次采样点数量可有效降低采样误差,尤其在拉伸工况下表现显著.此外,两类晶格结构在误差收敛性方面展现出一致规律,验证了方法在不同晶格结构中的普适性.本研究显示了多分辨率分子力学方法中能量采样方案在处理界面一致性与收敛性方面的优势,为发展高精度跨尺度计算力学方法提供了理论支撑.
[11] Qiong Bai,Yajing Qi,Shuyi Liu ,等.Multiscale insights into dough crumb resting: Unraveling water mobility-network structure interactions under moisture-temperature coupling[J].Food Chemistry,2026,511 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Dough crumb resting is critical for noodle quality, governed by the cross-scale water mobility and network structure under moisture-temperature coupling. However, multiscale dynamic interplay between water mobility and network structure remains inadequately elucidated. This study examined the effect of temperature (10/25/40 °C), water addition (34/37/40%) and resting time (0/15/30/60 min) on the water state and distribution, protein secondary structure and network structure within the dough crumb. The most favorable conditions were observed at 25 °C, 37% and 15 min, resulting in optimal water distribution, an increase in bound water, the highest content of α-helix, and formation of a highly compact network structure. Moderate conditions optimized the moisture-network balance, while elevated levels impaired uniformity or strength. Structural equation model further revealed a cross-scale mechanism that integrates moisture migration, protein conformation, network structure. This study elucidates the multiscale dynamics of dough crumb resting and provides a theoretical basis for precise quality control.
[12] Li, Xiaolin,Yang, Hangran,Zhu, Panpan ,等.The coupling multiscale finite element method for transient responses of heterogeneous magneto-electro-elastic structures in thermal environment[J].Journal of Mechanics,2025,41 (41):355-376,OXFORD UNIV PRESS
摘要：This study is focused on the transient response of heterogeneous magneto-electro-elastic composite structures in the thermal field. A coupled multiscale finite element method is presented to solve the multiphysics coupled problems of heterogeneous materials. Building upon the fundamental principle of multiscale finite element method, the multiphysics fields numerical basis functions for the displacement, electric and magnetic fields that can reflect the inhomogeneous characteristics of materials are constructed. Furthermore, based on the natural variational principle, the multiscale finite element method equations of motion for magneto-electro-elastic structures in the thermal field are derived, and thus the heterogeneous properties of the fine grid cells in the material are introduced into the coarse grid cells, so as to finely solve the problems at the coarse grid cells. Numerical cases confirm the coupled multiscale finite element method shows high precision. In comparison with the finite element method, the coupled multiscale finite element method makes tens of times improvement in computational efficiency, and provides an efficient numerical simulation method to solve the dynamics of heterogeneous magneto-electro-elastic materials in the thermal field.
[13] Qiang Chen,Jian Huang,Daokui Li ,等.The thermomechanical coupling and multiscale correlation mechanism of Cf/C–SiC composites reinforced with chopped carbon fibers[J].Composites Part B: Engineering,2026,315 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The evaluations of the thermomechanical properties and multiscale correlation between the effective elastic response and the thermal response of the chopped carbon fibers (c-Cf<sub>(MP)</sub>) reinforced silicon carbide ceramic matrix (c-Cf<sub>(MP)</sub>/C–SiC) composites, are investigated by experiments and numerical simulations. Unlike composites with continuous fibers, this study focuses on the unique multiscale architecture formed by randomly distributed chopped fibers, pyrolytic carbon interface, and SiC–Si effective matrix derived from reactive melt infiltration (RMI). The thermomechanical coupling mechanism across fiber-matrix interface, and the microstructural evolution from nanoscale interphases to mesoscale fiber networks determining the thermomechanical response, were demonstrated through a combined experiments and multiscale modeling approach. As a result, the use of shortened, highly graphitized fibers benefits to creating continuous thermal pathways while minimizing anisotropy of the composites. And then, the interfacial modification by the C<sub>PyC</sub> is conducive to balancing stress dissipation in c-Cf<sub>(MP)</sub>/C–SiC composite. Moreover, the appropriate amount of residual Si and the continuous distribution of SiC matrix determine the thermal conductivity of the composites. This work provides a foundational framework for the predictive design of Cf/C–SiC composites, moving beyond empirical approaches by linking tailored constituent architecture to predictable, coupled thermomechanical performance.
[14] Haitao Zhao,Li Tian,Wu Xu ,等.Experimental and numerical multiscale investigation of thermo- mechanical-acoustic coupling in CNTs/CF composite corrugated structures[J].Composite Structures,2026,377 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To elucidate the acoustic insulation characteristics of CNTs/CF reinforced composite corrugated sandwich structures, a multiscale modeling framework has been articulated for the prognostication of sound transmission loss across nano, micro, meso, and macro scales. This model is anchored in the locally-exact homogenization theory (LEHT), classical laminate theory, and finite element methodologies. Subsequently, the composite corrugated sandwich panels were manufactured through compression molding and solidification techniques. Modal analysis, employing the impact hammer method, and sound insulation assessments, utilizing the single reverberation chamber method, were executed on these panels. A comparative analysis between the simulation outcomes predicated on the proposed multiscale model and empirical data demonstrated a substantial level of concordance. Furthermore, the model was utilized to discourse on the influences of CNTs’ volume fraction, carbon fiber volume fraction, laminate layup, and core material on the acoustic insulation of composite corrugated sandwich panels. It is noteworthy that the study delved into the effects of temperature gradients on acoustic insulation properties within the context of coupled thermal/mechanical/acoustic fields. This research bears significant implications for the development and design of composite corrugated sandwich structures, particularly for train body structures, thus fostering the utilization of CNTs/CF reinforced composites in such sandwich configurations.
[15] Victor Lalleman,Vincent Magnier,Pierre Gosselet .Global-in-time global-local coupling using direct cyclic analysis for multiscale shakedown assessment and application to problems with contact[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2026,456 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper extends the Global-Local Iterative Coupling (GLIC) to a global-in-time framework dedicated to the computation of the stabilized cycle of structures that are globally linear but enriched with local elastoplastic patches. By relying on Direct Cyclic Analysis (DCA) for both global and local problems, the method directly computes the limit cycle without incremental synchronization requirements. This enables an efficient multiscale assessment of the influence of localized nonlinearity on stabilized cycle. The approach is implemented in Abaqus/Standard and validated on several configurations, demonstrating accuracy and significant gains in computational cost. The methodology is further applied to a configuration with contact, illustrating its versatility when addressing more complex localized nonlinear phenomena.
[16] Hui Zhu,Lei Yang,Ruimin Zhang ,等.A new coupling algorithm for fractional diffusion equations based on multiscale functions[J].Alexandria Engineering Journal,2025,121 :379-386,Elsevier Science
摘要：We discuss a new discrete-continuous coupling algorithm for fractional diffusion equations based on piecewise interpolation polynomials and multiscale functions. This method considers to discretize the time fractional derivative using the L1-2 scheme while maintaining the continuity of the spatial variable. Then, the multiscale orthogonal polynomial algorithm is used to solve the spatial dimension equations, ultimately yielding the approximate solutions for the factional diffusion equations. Additionally, we provide the theoretical foundations of the algorithm and prove its convergence and stability. Through the test results of four examples, we validate the effectiveness and accuracy of the proposed approach.
[17] Xia, Nan,Wang, Xinxiang,Hu, Guoqing ,等.DPAC: Dual-Path Domain Bridging With Atmospheric Correction for Adverse Weather Adaptation[J].IEEE Access,2026,14 :4642-4656,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Data-driven semantic segmentation models often generalize poorly to unseen adverse weather conditions due to significant domain shifts and the lack of labeled data in the target domain. While recent unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) approaches attempt to mitigate this gap through adversarial alignment or self-training, they typically treat domain discrepancy as a holistic shift, leading to suboptimal adaptation under diverse and complex weather conditions. We propose a Dual-Path Domain Bridging with Atmospheric Correction (DPAC) framework that disentangles style-related and weather-related discrepancies via two complementary teacher models. First, a reference domain is introduced to decompose the source-target gap, and the teacher models are trained using dual-path mixed data to mitigate discrepancies caused by style variation and weather degradation. Then, an atmospheric correction module is integrated into the weather-path teacher to restore degraded target images and improve feature-level alignment. Lastly, a student model is optimized under the alternating supervision of both teachers, enabling robust knowledge integration and enhanced generalization. Extensive experiments on public benchmarks demonstrate the superiority of our approach. DPAC achieves significant performance gains of 5.1% on the Cityscapes to ACDC task, 6.1% on Cityscapes to Foggy Driving, and 5.3% on Cityscapes to Foggy Zurich over a strong baseline, validating the effectiveness of the dual-path domain bridging strategy in complex multi-weather scenarios.
[18] Bociu, Lorena,Broussard, Matthew,Guidoboni, Giovanna ,等.ANALYSIS OF A MULTISCALE INTERFACE PROBLEM BASED ON THE COUPLING OF PARTIAL AND ORDINARY DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS TO MODEL TISSUE PERFUSION[J].Multiscale Modeling & Simulation,2025,23 (1):1-24,SIAM PUBLICATIONS
摘要：In biomechanics, local phenomena, such as tissue perfusion, are strictly related to the global features of the surrounding blood circulation. In this paper, we propose a heterogeneous model where a local, accurate, three-dimensional (3D) description of tissue perfusion by means of fluid flows through deformable porous media equations is coupled with a systemic, 0D, lumped model of the remainder of the circulation, where the fluid flow through a vascular network is described via its analogy with a current flowing through an electric circuit. This represents a multiscale strategy, which couples an initial boundary value problem to be used in a specific tissue region with an initial value problem in the surrounding circulatory system. This PDE/ODE coupling leads to interface conditions enforcing the continuity of mass and the balance of stresses across models at different scales, and careful consideration is taken to address this interface mismatch. The resulting system involves PDEs of mixed type with interface conditions depending on nonlinear ODEs. A new result on local existence of solutions for this multiscale interface coupling is provided in this article.
[19] Sheng, Keming,Du, Mingliang,Liu, Haiyang ,等.Nonlinear Coupling of Solid-Liquid Invasion Damage in Tight Sandstone Reservoirs: A Multiscale Characterization and Suppression Modeling Approach[J].Journal of Energy Resources Technology, Part B: Subsurface Energy and Carbon Capture,2026,2 (3),ASME
摘要：Formation damage in tight sandstone reservoirs is commonly evaluated by assuming that solid-phase plugging and liquid-phase filtrate invasion act independently and contribute linearly to permeability loss. In realistic drilling scenarios, however, these two phases invade the formation sequentially and interactively, rendering the linear superposition assumption physically questionable. This study develops a multiscale experimental framework to investigate the nonlinear coupling between solid-phase and liquid-phase invasion damage in tight sandstone reservoirs. Progressive core flooding experiments were conducted under isolated and coupled invasion conditions, combined with nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), micro-computed tomography (micro-CT), and scanning electron microscopy and energy-dispersive spectroscopy (SEM/EDS) analyses to characterize the evolution of permeability, pore structure, and particle retention. Results show that solid-phase plugging not only causes direct permeability reduction but also suppresses subsequent liquid-phase invasion by modifying pore throat connectivity. To quantitatively describe this suppression effect, a coupling model based on a suppression factor psi(theta) is proposed, in which the liquid-phase accessible damage fraction is expressed as a nonlinear function of solid-phase blocking intensity theta derived from CT-based bottleneck analysis. Among the tested functional forms, a sigmoid relationship best captures the observed threshold-dominated behavior (R-2 = 0.956). Experimental results indicate that under strong solid-phase blockage, liquid-phase damage is reduced by up to approximately 37% compared with its uncoupled value, explaining why total coupled damage is significantly lower than the arithmetic sum of solid-only and liquid-only damage benchmarks. This work provides experimental evidence for nonlinear solid-liquid coupling in drilling fluid-induced formation damage.
[20] Cairui Yan,Xu Cheng,Likang Wu ,等.Bridging the gap in cross-domain graph anomaly detection: Enhanced source utilization and label accuracy[J].Information Processing & Management,2026,63 (5),Elsevier Science
摘要：Cross-domain graph anomaly detection is crucial for maintaining data security and system stability, as it can identify and respond to anomalous behaviors spanning various data domains. However, current methods are limited by their inability to fully leverage the complex source domain information and accurately assign labels due to the ambiguity and variability of anomalies across domains. To address these challenges, we propose an innovative approach, namely Bridging the Gap in Cross-Domain Anomaly Detection (BGAD). Our method employs high-frequency information-enriched node initialization and anomaly-aware denoised auto-encoders to deeply mine insights from the source domain and align them with the target domain. Additionally, a feedback-driven label shifting correction mechanism dynamically enhances label prediction precision. Our method has been rigorously tested on four different datasets. Compared with the most advanced CD-GAD method CDFS, BGAD has increased the AUC-ROC by 15.7%, significantly reducing false positives and false negatives, demonstrating outstanding effectiveness and practicality.
[21] Tan, Bei,Wang, Fang,Yu, Zu-Guo .Multiscale temporal weighted coupling correlation detrended analysis for multivariate nonstationary series[J].Chaos: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Nonlinear Science,2025,35 (5),AIP Publishing
摘要：Understanding coupling correlations in multivariate time series is crucial for analyzing the complex dynamics of real world systems, where interactions often vary across different time scales. In this paper, we propose two novel methods: temporal weighted coupling correlation detrended analysis and its multiscale extension and multiscale temporal weighted coupling correlation detrended analysis (MTWCCDA). These two methods improve the trend removal process by incorporating temporal weighting, leading to a more robust and accurate characterization of coupling correlation behavior. We evaluate the performance of the proposed methods using synthetic data from several perspectives: accuracy of scaling index estimation, robustness to trends, sensitivity to noise and various components, and the necessity of MTWCCDA for capturing coupling behavior across scales. Additionally, MTWCCDA is applied to study the coupling behaviors of six air pollutants in Hunan Province, China, at different time scales. A Q-statistic quantifies each pollutant's contribution to the system's multifractal coupling correlation across scales, while scaling indices are used for clustering 14 cities, revealing regional variations in coupling behavior. The results provide valuable insights into pollutant interdependencies, aiding in the development of targeted air quality management strategies. The proposed methods offer a robust framework for investigating dynamic coupling behaviors in complex, multiscale, and non-stationary multivariate time series.
[22] Guo, Wenhui,Wang, Yanjiang .EEG Emotion Recognition via Multiscale Convolution-Spike Coupling Network with Haar Wavelet Transform[J].Signal, Image and Video Processing,2026,20 (4):195-195,SPRINGER LONDON LTD
摘要：Decoding emotional states from electroencephalogram (EEG) signals is challenging due to the complex and nonlinear nature of brain activity. To address this, we propose a novel multiscale convolution-spike coupling network with Haar wavelet transform, termed CSCN-WT. The framework leverages Haar wavelet decomposition to enhance informative components and reduce signal non-stationarity, while integrating convolutional and spiking neural networks to exploit their complementary strengths in spatial and temporal feature learning. A spatiotemporal coupling module is introduced to enable multi-level fusion of spatial features and wavelet-decomposed subbands through interactive integration, thereby improving the model's ability to capture discriminative time-frequency patterns with enhanced temporal resolution and frequency localization. Additionally, an adaptive weighted multi-path loss is designed to guide parameter optimization, enabling the network to dynamically adapt to EEG data distribution and varying task demands. Experiments are conducted on both a collected dataset (UEED) and widely used public datasets (SEED, SEED-IV, DEAP). Results show that CSCN-WT achieves state-of-the-art performance, demonstrating its effectiveness.
[23] Liu, Xing,Ren, Quanbin,Wang, Qihu ,等.Investigation on combustion and heat transfer in AP/HTPB propellants with multiscale model coupling validated chemical kinetics and representative microstructure[J].Applied Thermal Engineering,2026,300 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：<ul class="list"><li class="react-xocs-list-item"><span class="list-label">•</span><span class="list-content"><div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="p0005">A well-validated gas-phase reaction mechanism for AP/HTPB was developed using GA.</div></span></li><li class="react-xocs-list-item"><span class="list-label">•</span><span class="list-content"><div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="p0010">The multiscale model coupled the chemical kinetic with representative microstructure.</div></span></li><li class="react-xocs-list-item"><span class="list-label">•</span><span class="list-content"><div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="p0015">Thermal processes and dynamic burning surface were investigated under 2–15 MPa.</div></span></li><li class="react-xocs-list-item"><span class="list-label">•</span><span class="list-content"><div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="p0020">The model elucidated the pressure-driven shift in the burning rate control mechanism.</div></span></li></ul>
[24] Yifan Li,Xiaojun Xiong,Hongao Yang ,等.Multiscale analysis of heat-mass-reaction coupling in the controlled synthesis of graphene oxide via heart-shaped microchannels[J].International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer,2026,255, Part 1 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Precise regulation of the oxidation degree of graphene oxide (GO) is critical for tailoring its physicochemical properties and expanding its applications. In this work, a heart-shaped microchannel was designed to achieve controlled GO synthesis via geometry-induced heat-mass-reaction coupling. A multiscale simulation strategy integrating the Discrete Phase Model (DPM), Discrete Element Method (DEM), and Reactive Molecular Dynamics (RMD) was developed to uncover the underlying mechanism. Increasing the inlet velocity from 0.025 m/s to 1.0 m/s enhanced the maximum shear rate and wall heat flux, accelerating convective heat transfer and mass mixing in the bifurcation and recombination zones. The higher flow velocities induced stronger interparticle and wall contact forces, potentially facilitating graphite fragmentation. Experimental results demonstrated that as the flow velocity decreases (from 1.0 m/s to 0.025 m/s), the O/C ratio decreases from 0.44 to 0.21, showing good agreement with the oxidation trend predicted by the RMD simulations (from 0.43 to 0.28). This study establishes a geometry-guided, multiphysics-multiscale framework for the rational design of microchannel systems for nanomaterial synthesis.
[25] Wang, Ruiwen,Li, Zhenshan,Liu, Lei .Multiscale reaction model coupling dual-site microkinetics with bulk diffusion and CFD-DEM for a perovskite oxygen carrier[J].Frontiers in Chemistry,2025,13 ,FRONTIERS MEDIA SA
摘要：Non-catalytic heterogeneous reactions in fluidized beds involve physical and chemical processes spanning across the atom, surface, grain, particle, and reactor scales. However, a multiscale modeling framework covering all scales has not been fulfilled due to the incomplete coupling strategies. This study develops a multiscale model coupling all five scales. The elementary reaction path is derived from first-principles calculation, which is applied to a dual-site mean-field microkinetics describing the states of active site pairs;bulk-phase ion diffusion is treated by a lumped parameter method considering the asymmetrical effects of different site types. The intrinsic reaction kinetics is coupled with intraparticle gas diffusion and fluidization computed via CFD-DEM;experimental validation is conducted on a micro-fluidized-bed thermogravimetric analyzer measuring the solid conversion. The model is applied to the reduction of CaMn0.375Ti0.5Fe0.125O3-delta by H2 at designed gas concentrations and temperatures, revealing the effects of parameters from all scales on the overall reaction kinetics. The developed multiscale framework can be further adopted in other heterogeneous reactions with determined solid microstructures.
[26] Xiangzhe Li,Lizhi Ren,Xiaojia Zheng ,等.Multiscale Coupling Between Macroscopic Mechanics and Atomic Assembly(MM-AA)of Soft-Lattice Halide Perovskites Special Collection:2025 Emerging Investigators[J].Aggregate,2025,6 (11):1-37,John Wiley and Sons Inc
摘要：Halide perovskites are promising candidates for optoelectronic devices,but their solution-processed films frequently suffer from solute aggregation,crystalline disorder,and random orientation,that is,defects that significantly compromise device *** issues arise from complex multiscale interactions during film formation,where macroscopic mechanical forces could hypothetically influence atomic-scale *** review elucidates the critical role of multiscale mechanical coupling(linking surface/interface mechanics,fluid dynamics,and crystallization kinetics)in governing perovskite film quality,which ultimately enhanced the uniformity of film thickness,photoelectric performance,and long-term *** first analyze how solvent evaporation,interfacial energy,and flow-induced shear shape the spatiotemporal evolution of solute distribution and crystal *** on this understanding,we present mechanical regulation strategies aimed at directing film formation:modifying wettability through surfactants and surface energy modulators;manipulating flow behavior via Marangoni convection and shear stress;and mitigating interfacial stress through lattice and thermal expansion *** further enhance structural control,we highlight fabrication techniques that couple multiple external fields(e.g.,thermal,electrical,mechanical,and chemical fields)and leverage in situ characterization for real-time ***,we explore machine learning-assisted multiscale modeling as a powerful tool to connect atomic interactions with macroscopic processing variables,enabling predictive *** integrating these insights,this review establishes a unified framework for guiding high-quality,scalable perovskite film fabrication toward industrial deployment.
[27] Yang Xia,Xinyu Zhou,Hongze Niu ,等.Electric–Mechanical coupling analysis of two-dimensional piezoelectric heterogeneous materials in flexible electric devices with extended multiscale isogeometric analysis[J].European Journal of Mechanics - A/Solids,2025,109 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Piezoelectric heterogeneous materials are widely used in flexible electronic device design, enhancing sensitivity to external stimuli like pressure and acceleration. Despite their usefulness, analyzing these inherently periodic structures poses significant computational challenges. In response, this paper presents a multiscale isogeometric analysis approach tailored for simulating piezoelectric materials. We introduce an electric–mechanical coupling model using isogeometric analysis (IGA) for two-dimensional piezoelectric membrane structures, assuming the plane stress hypothesis. Our proposed algorithm enables precise calculation of both displacement and electric potential solutions, demonstrating superior convergence properties compared to traditional finite element methods. Furthermore, we extend this approach to multiscale isogeometric analysis for computing numerical solutions in porous structures and heterogeneous composite piezoelectric materials under tensile and bending conditions. Through rigorous numerical testing, we evaluate the proposed extended multiscale isogeometric analysis method, showcasing its efficacy in achieving a balance between computational efficiency and simulation accuracy. This IGA-based electro-mechanical coupling model and numerical algorithm pave the way for more streamlined and precise simulations of piezoelectric materials within the context of flexible electronic devices. © 2024 Elsevier Masson SAS
[28] Kejie Fu,Mingjie Liao,Yangshuai Wang ,等.MeshAC: A 3D mesh generation and adaptation package for multiscale coupling methods[J].Computer Physics Communications,2025,310 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper introduces the <span class="monospace">MeshAC</span> package, which generates three-dimensional adaptive meshes tailored for the efficient and robust implementation of multiscale coupling methods. While Delaunay triangulation is commonly used for mesh generation across the entire computational domain, generating meshes for multiscale coupling methods is more challenging due to intrinsic discrete structures such as defects, and the need to match these structures to the continuum domain at the interface. The <span class="monospace">MeshAC</span> package tackles these challenges by creating hierarchical mesh structures linked through a novel modified interface region. It also incorporates localized modification and reconstruction operations specifically designed for interfaces. These enhancements improve both the implementation efficiency and the quality of the coupled mesh. Furthermore, <span class="monospace">MeshAC</span> introduces a novel adaptive feature that utilizes gradient-based a posteriori error estimation, which automatically adjusts the atomistic region and continuum mesh, striving for an appropriate trade-off between accuracy and efficiency. This package can be directly applied to the geometry optimization problems of a/c coupling in static mechanics <a class="anchor anchor-primary" data-sd-ui-side-panel-opener="true" data-xocs-content-id="br0010" data-xocs-content-type="reference" href="#br0010" name="bbr0010"><span class="anchor-text-container"><span class="anchor-text">[1]</span></span></a>, <a class="anchor anchor-primary" data-sd-ui-side-panel-opener="true" data-xocs-content-id="br0020" data-xocs-content-type="reference" href="#br0020" name="bbr0020"><span class="anchor-text-container"><span class="anchor-text">[2]</span></span></a>, <a class="anchor anchor-primary" data-sd-ui-side-panel-opener="true" data-xocs-content-id="br0030" data-xocs-content-type="reference" href="#br0030" name="bbr0030"><span class="anchor-text-container"><span cl
[29] Yuqing Wang,Wenxiu Xu,Yan Zhang ,等.Multiscale coupling modification with amino silane-microcrystalline cellulose to enhance the interfacial bonding strength[J].Composites Communications,2026,64 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) fibers suffer from poor interfacial adhesion with epoxy, severely limiting the mechanical performance of composites. Current surface modification methods for UHMWPE fibers exhibit issues such as uniformity and fiber strength impairment. To address this limitation, this study proposes a multiscale synergistic modification strategy for UHMWPE combining plasma treatment, amino silane (3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane), and microcrystalline cellulose (MCC). This method significantly enhances fiber-epoxy interfacial bonding while preserving the fiber's intrinsic strength. Interfacial shear strength (IFSS) of the modified fibers increased from 1.53 MPa to 6.14 MPa with a rise of 300%. Quasi-static tensile strength of the modified single-fiber composites increased from 3.51 GPa to 3.78 GPa, an increase of 7.49%. The static tensile strength of the modified fiber filament reinforced composite material increased from 30.87 MPa to 51.91 MPa, an increase of 68.16%. In addition, strength retention under thermal stress of modified single-fiber composites has also been enhanced. After treatment at 135 C, the quasi-static tensile strength of the modified fiber-reinforced composites remained at 2.99 GPa, surpassing untreated counterparts (2.26 GPa) by 32.3%. This synergistic strategy not only improves interfacial adhesion and tensile properties but also ensures minimal strength degradation after thermal exposure, thus exhibiting great potential in a variety of applications.
[30] Chen, Xiaoyu,Chen, Tong,Sun, Mengfeng .Multiscale dynamics of epidemic-information coupling model on duplex networks: Role of environmental transmission[J].Chaos: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Nonlinear Science,2026,36 (5),AIP Publishing
摘要：Nowadays, with the development of Internet technology and the change of climate and environment, the spread of epidemics has become more and more complex. This paper considers a multiscale model coupling epidemics, information and environment, where we adopt the UAU (unaware-aware-unaware) process for information propagation and the modified SIS (susceptible-infective-susceptible) model with environmental infection for epidemic spreading. To describe the differences in epidemic and information transmission pathways and speeds, we use a duplex network framework and introduce a relative timescale parameter. Under a homogeneous mixing hypothesis, we utilize the mean-field approach to reduce the dimension of the model and analyze its dynamics, including epidemic thresholds and the existence and stability of disease-free equilibria. In the case of heterogeneous networks, we conduct a similar analysis. Numerical simulations are performed to confirm the existence of positive equilibria and show that information dissemination [especially the reactions of AS (aware and susceptible) and Al (aware and infected) individuals) and environmental cleanup are crucial. However, rapid information dissemination is not conducive to reducing the final scale of epidemics. A preliminary understanding of the relationship among environment, information, and epidemics in multiscale context is of great significance for preventing and controlling the spread of epidemics in real life.
[31] Grunwald, Christoph,Sauer, Martin,Stolz, Alexander ,等.Enhancing Efficiency in Multiscale Simulation: Comparing a Lagrange Multiplier Based Approach and a Weak Staggered Coupling With Optional SPML Interface for Wave Propagation[J].International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering,2025,126 (9),WILEY
摘要：The representation of material failure due to wave propagation is essential for the numerical analysis of engineering structures under high dynamic loading. Explicit time integration schemes are well established for this kind of application. In order to realistically model the failure of certain material classes, it is necessary to resolve lower scale features accurately. Concurrent multiscale approaches are therefore well suited to this task. However, they are often complex and computationally demanding. The introduction of interfaces between disparately meshed domains may additionally lead to emerging reflections for waves that contain high frequencies, which the coarse domain cannot resolve. In this article, we compare accuracy, computational efficiency, versatility, and effort for two finite element implementations of concurrent two-scale schemes. Both offer the possibility of adding a Selected Perfectly Matched Layer (SPML) to dampen incompatible frequencies. One approach is the widely used conventional Lagrange multiplier (LM) approach;the second is a weak staggered (WS) coupling, which was designed to maintain direct solution schemes' efficiency with explicit time integration and diagonal mass matrices. It turns out that, for typical discretizations, the WS coupling achieves an accuracy comparable to the LM coupling but requires fewer computational operations and, relevant for parallel computer architectures, significantly less communication efforts. Adaptive changes of interface topology, for example, due to explicitly resolved cracks crossing the interface, can easily be represented in the WS approach, making it a suitable candidate for the application in scenarios where gross damage is expected.
[32] Xiaofei Guan,Lijian Jiang,Yajun Wang .Regularized coupling multiscale method for thermomechanical coupled problems[J].Journal of Computational Physics,2024,499 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：It is crucial to build multiscale modeling for the coupling effects between microstructure and the physical mechanisms in multiphysics problems. In the paper, we develop a coupling formulation of the generalized multiscale finite element method (GMsFEM) to solve coupled thermomechanical problems, and it is referred as the coupling generalized multiscale finite element method (CGMsFEM). The approach consists in defining the coupling multiscale basis functions through local coupling spectral problems in each coarse-grid block, which can be solved by a novel design of two relaxation parameters. Compared to the standard GMsFEM, the proposed strategy can not only accurately capture the multiscale coupling correlation effects of multiphysics problems, but also greatly improve the computational efficiency with fewer multiscale basis functions. In addition, the convergence analysis is also established, and the optimal error estimates are derived, where the upper bound of errors is independent of the magnitude of the relaxation coefficient. Several numerical examples for periodic, random microstructure, and random material coefficients are presented to validate the theoretical analysis. The numerical results show that the CGMsFEM approach shows better robustness and efficiency than uncoupled GMsFEM.
[33] Ruan, Jiafu,Wang, Xigui,Wang, Yongmei ,等.Multiscale Texture Fractal Analysis of Thermo-Mechanical Coupling in Micro-Asperity Contact Interfaces[J].Symmetry,2025,17 (11),MDPI
摘要：The line contact behavior of multiscale meshing interfaces necessitates synergistic investigation spanning nano-to centimeter-scale ranges. When nominally smooth gear teeth surfaces come into contact, the mechanical-thermal coupling effect at the meshing interface actually occurs over a collection of microscale asperities (roughness peaks) exhibiting hierarchical distribution characteristics. The emergent deformation phenomena across multiple asperity scales govern the self-organized evolution of interface conformity, thereby regulating both the load transfer efficiency and thermal transport properties within the contact zone. The fractal nature of the roughness topography on actual meshing interfaces calls for the development of a cross-scale theoretical framework that integrates micro-texture optimization with multi-physics coupling contact behavior. Conventional roughness characterization methods based on statistical parameters suffer from inherent limitations: their parameter values are highly dependent on measurement scale, lacking uniqueness under varying sampling intervals and instrument resolutions, and failing to capture the scale-invariant nature of meshing interface topography. A scale-independent parameter system grounded in fractal geometry theory enables essential feature extraction and quantitative characterization of three-dimensional interface morphology. This study establishes a progressive deformation theory for gear line contact interfaces with fractal geometric characteristics, encompassing elastic, elastoplastic transition, and perfectly plastic stages. By systematically investigating the force-thermal coupling mechanisms in textured meshing interfaces under multiscale conditions, the research provides a theoretical foundation and numerical implementation pathways for high-precision multiscale thermo-mechanical analysis of meshing interfaces.
[34] Shengjie Duan,Huiqing Luo,Lihui Yu ,等.Multiscale mechanistic insights into sonochemical energy coupling and flavor evolution in Pu‑erh tea[J].Ultrasonics Sonochemistry,2026,125 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Pu’erh tea (<em>Camellia sinensis</em> var. <em>assamica</em>) represents a highly complex multiphase fermentation system in which flavor formation spans chemical transformation, energy transfer and microecological succession. To elucidate the mechanistic basis by which sonochemical energy input accelerates flavor evolution, we developed an integrated multiscale model combining flavoromics, molecular dynamics simulations and microbial ecological analysis. The model captures molecular reactions and metabolic regulation under ultrasonic *** acoustic power density (0.3–0.8  W mL<sup>−1</sup>) substantially enhanced cavitation intensity and energy absorption, accompanied by elevated concentrations of reactive radicals (•OH 40–96  µM) and an increased mass-transfer coefficient, generating high-energy heterogeneous microdomains. Sonochemical coupling reduced the reaction barrier of ester-type catechins (ΔG ≈ –25  kJ mol<sup>−1</sup>) and accelerated their conversion into free acid polyphenols. Concurrently, high shear forces induced partial depolymerization of proteins and peptides, leading to 1.5–3-fold increases in taste-active amino acids and soluble sugars, thus reinforcing the “<em>mellow</em>” and “<em>sweet</em>” mouthfeel of the *** (<em>meta</em>-omics) profiling revealed that elevated acoustic energy favored the enrichment of functional microbial consortia dominated by <em>Lactobacillus plantarum</em> and <em>Aspergillus niger</em>. Pathways related to aroma synthesis—including phenylalanine metabolism and monoterpene biosynthesis—exhibited approximately twofold enrichment, driving the accumulation of aromatic esters and terpenes. Multivariate modeling (PLSR and RDA, R<sup>2</sup> &gt; 0.90, Q<sup>2</sup> &gt; 0.70) confirmed that acoustic power and cavitation indices quantitatively predict flavor outputs. However, rigorous techno-economic analysis and acoustic propagation modeling in solid-state media reveal that industria
[35] Lin, Sensen,Lu, Yongheng,Gao, Yang ,等.Multiscale cascade triggered by the vacancy-[Si plus C] synergy in β-SiC: a first-principles study of electron-structure-dynamics coupling[J].Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics,2026,28 (9):6006-6017,ROYAL SOC CHEMISTRY
摘要：The degradation of beta-SiC under irradiation manifesting as swelling and amorphization originates from the accumulation and interaction of atomic-scale defects. While single vacancies have been studied, the synergistic role of vacancy complexes, particularly the divacancy, as potential seeds for cascade damage, remains poorly understood. Here, we employ ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) to systematically investigate the vacancy-[Si + C] in beta-SiC to reveal its function as a cooperative defect unit that triggers multiscale instability. Unlike a linear superposition of individual vacancy effects, the vacancy-[Si + C] induces nonlinear synergy and initiates with electron cloud delocalization evidenced by fragmented electron localization function. This electronic perturbation cascades into severe short-range lattice disorder, suppressed mid-range atomic mobility and global phonon mode softening. We elucidate a coherent electron-structure-dynamics coupling mechanism. Vacancy-[Si + C] as a synergistic defect core whose coupled lattice strain and electron delocalization effect destroy the periodic bonding of beta-SiC, causing large-scale lattice disorder. This work establishes a novel defect-origin perspective for irradiation damage in beta-SiC, revealing the vacancy-[Si + C] as a prototypical synergistic defect seed that triggers a multiscale damage cascade. The coupled electron-structure-dynamics approach developed here offers a generalizable paradigm for deciphering complex defect behaviors in covalent materials, providing critical guidance for vacancy-engineering strategies in beta-SiC based functional materials.
[36] Xiaoru Gao,Guoyan Zheng .ReTri: Progressive domain bridging via representation disentanglement and triple-level consistency-driven feature alignment for unsupervised domain adaptive medical image segmentation[J].Neural Networks,2026,198 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) in medical image segmentation presents significant challenges due to substantial cross-domain disparities and the inherent absence of target domain annotations. In this study, to address these challenges, we propose an end-to-end progressive domain bridging framework based on representation disentanglement and triple-level consistency-driven feature alignment, referred to as ReTri, that synergistically integrates a representation disentanglement-based image alignment (RDIA) module with a novel triple-level consistency-driven feature alignment (TCFA) module. In particular, the RDIA module aims to establish an initial domain bridge by decoupling and aligning fundamental visual disparities through disentangled representation learning, while the novel TCFA module hierarchically bridges remaining cross-domain semantic discrepancies and feature distribution disparities via two novel consistency-driven alignment mechanisms: 1) attention-guided semantics-level consistency alignment, where we purposely design a bi-attentive semantic feature extraction (BSFE) component coupled with an attention-adaptive semantic consistency (ASC) loss function, facilitating dynamic alignment of high-level semantic representations across domains, and 2) multi-view dual-level mixing consistency alignment, consisting of Feature-Cut consistent self-ensembling (FCCS) and Trans-Cut consistent self-ensembling (TCCS) components. These two components operate within intermediate mixing spaces to ensure robust knowledge transfer through complementary feature- and prediction-level consistency regularization. Extensive experimental evaluations are conducted on four challenging datasets (Lumbar Spine CT-MR, Cardiac CT-MR, Cross-domain Echocardiography, and Multi-center Prostate MR) across seven UDA-based segmentation scenarios and two external validation scenarios. Our framework achieves superior performance over the best state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods on following UDA
[37] Kim, Taegeun,Ko, Hyoungsoo,Jang, Jaewon ,等.An efficient multiscale coupling method for simulations of reactor-scale chemical with microstructural features[J].Advances in Engineering Software,2026,212 ,ELSEVIER SCI LTD
摘要：An efficient multiscale coupling method is proposed for simulations of reactor-scale chemical vapor deposition (CVD) with microstructural features. Reactor-scale and microstructure-resolved feature-scale models are coupled through an effective reaction rate formalism, enabling high-resolution deposition simulations while significantly reducing computational cost. A parameterized microstructural model is introduced, in which the relationship between the effective reaction rate and local species consumption rates in the reactor-scale model is directly mapped using precomputed Monte Carlo simulation data. This eliminates the need for iterative calculations or direct numerical simulations of the surface reaction across all the discretized grid points on the wafer, ensuring predictive accuracy while enhancing computational efficiency. Furthermore, an adaptive time-stepping method is developed, dynamically adjusting the time-step size for the feature-scale model based on variations in the effective reaction rate. Through this approach, simulation time is reduced by more than one-third compared to conventional fixed time-step methods, while preserving the accuracy of the effective reaction rate model. The proposed method enables practical and scalable multiscale CVD simulations applicable to industrial reactor design and process optimization, establishing a computationally efficient strategy for integrating reactor-scale and microstructure-resolved feature-scale models.
[38] Yongkao Li,Haoquan Liang,Yan Wang ,等.Nonlinear response prediction of stratospheric airship envelope differential pressure via multimodal coupling and multiscale decomposition[J].Aerospace Science and Technology,2026,178 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Accurate analysis and prediction of the differential pressure between the interior and exterior environments of the envelope—a critical component of stratospheric airships—are essential for the reliable assessment of their remaining useful life. However, conventional models based on fundamental physical laws, frequently involving significant simplifications and introducing static physical parameters as inputs, cannot adequately represent the complex and extreme conditions encountered in the stratosphere. Accurate prediction of envelope differential pressure relies on the integration of data from various onboard sensors. Moreover, the envelope exhibits distinct dynamic behaviors governed by varying physical mechanisms. The dominant factors driving pressure evolution are time-variant and shift across multiple time scales. To address the aforementioned issues, a data-driven modeling methodology is adopted. In this study, we propose an interpretable analytical framework—Multimodal Coupling and Multiscale Decomposition (MCMD)—for the first application in predicting the differential pressure of stratospheric airship envelopes. Specifically, a multimodal analysis module is employed to capture and quantify the intricate interdependencies among multiple variables, while a multi-scale mixture of experts module is implemented to effectively integrate dominant factors across different temporal scales. To assess the generalizability of the method, confirmatory experiments are conducted on several publicly available datasets. Subsequently, the performance of the proposed method is evaluated through both complete-process simulations of stratospheric airship systems and ground-based experiments on scale models. Comparative analyses with other prevailing state-of-the-art baseline methods consistently demonstrate the superiority and effectiveness of the proposed approach, proving its significant practical value for predicting the envelope differential pressure in stratospheric airshi
[39] Yang Yang,Xun Wei,Yijun Liu .A novel multiscale crack propagation modeling approach based on adaptive coupling of peridynamics and boundary element method[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,325 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper introduces an innovative multiscale method for predicting crack propagation by integrating the peridynamics (PD) with the boundary element method (BEM) in an adaptive framework. This proposed algorithm autonomously predicts the path and direction of crack propagation without requiring predefined crack trajectory domains. Microcrack propagation is accurately tracked using bond-based PD approach, which specifically focuses on the crack tip field. The overall response of the structure and the behavior of macrocracks are simulated using the dual BEM. The evolution of the cracks is automatically captured through the adaptive coupling of these two algorithms via iterative of displacements continuity and force equilibrium. Throughout the analysis, the geometry and discretization of the PD domain remain unchanged, which helps limit the non-local computational domain and significantly reduces the computation time. Macrocracks are treated as boundaries of the entire structure, simplifying the implementation process. The accuracy of this method is verified through analytical results using various PD domains. Additionally, its efficiency is demonstrated through several examples of crack propagation predictions. The results demonstrate that this algorithm has the potential for applications in the crack propagation analysis of actual structural components.
[40] Shiyan Yang,Qianhang Zhou,Lijuan Sun ,等.Multiscale risks-bioaccessibility coupling framework for improving derivation of soil cadmium threshold[J].Environment International,2026,207 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：It is imperative to derive the precise threshold of cadmium (Cd) in soil for rice safety production and human health protection. The traditional soil Cd threshold derivation is mainly based on the total amount of Cd and a single risk of Cd pollution, without considering Cd bioaccessibility, multiscale risks and spatial heterogeneity. This fails to synergistically protect safe rice production and human health, and often lead to over- and non-protection issues. Here, we conducted a systematic <em>peri</em>-urban soil-rice grain paired field sampling in the largest megacity of China, where a new multiscale risks-bioaccessibility coupling (MRBC) framework was established to improve the derivation of regional-specific soil Cd threshold. The framework is valid and reliable when applied to regional field-collected datasets. Soil Cd threshold is tailored based on soil properties, multiple risks protection objectives and bioaccessibility of Cd. Results indicated that pH, EC, and SOM concentration were major soil factors influencing the Cd bioaccumulation of rice and soil Cd threshold. Derived soil Cd threshold concentration considering HNO<sub>3</sub> and CaCl<sub>2</sub>-extractable Cd decreased. However, when further considering the health risks of Cd intake through soil-rice-human transfer chain, integrating the gastrointestinal bioaccessibility significantly increased soil Cd threshold. Overall, the derived soil Cd threshold based on MRBC framework indicated that the current soil Cd environmental criteria in China were too conservative and may over-protect the regional-specific rice production and human health. Our findings improved existing soil threshold derivation techniques and enabled more precise and scientific soil environmental quality management.
[41] Wenhui Qi,Yiduan Zhang,Yijun Zhang ,等.Advanced honeycomb structures for aerospace: Multiscale mechanics, bio-inspired hierarchical design, and multi-physics coupling responses[J].Thin-Walled Structures,2026,218 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Honeycomb structure is widely used in aerospace field because of its unique periodic topology, high porosity and low density, showing excellent specific stiffness, specific strength and excellent energy absorption capacity. This paper systematically reviews the research progress of design, preparation and mechanical properties of honeycomb structures for aerospace. Firstly, the classification and core characteristics of honeycomb structures are reviewed, and the material selection and preparation process are discussed according to the different needs of aircraft. Secondly, the mechanical behavior response law of honeycomb structure under various loads (including static load, impact load and other multi-field coupling loads) is deeply analyzed. In addition, the strategies to improve the performance of honeycomb structure are expounded from the aspects of topology optimization, multiscale simulation and process improvement. This review highlights the necessity of developing honeycomb structures with superior performance, low cost, and ultra-high dimensional stability to meet the strict requirements of material properties in the aerospace field, and provides valuable insights for guiding future research and aerospace applications.
[42] Xianlin Zhan,Mengqiu Huang,Bicheng Li ,等.Multiscale magnetic-dielectric coupling in nano-micro-macro Fe/Fe3O4 @C aerogels via confinement strategy for broadband electromagnetic wave absorption[J].Chemical Engineering Journal,2026,538 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Rational design of magnetic-dielectric composites proves essential for developing broadband electromagnetic (EM) wave absorbers. However, the non-uniform distribution of magnetic particles within the carbon matrix significantly reduces magnetic coupling efficiency. To overcome this, we employ a confinement strategy to fabricate Fe/Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>@C composite aerogels that feature a multiscale magnetoelectric coupling network. The confined-growth Fe/Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>@C nanoscale magnetic‑carbon units construct high-density heterogeneous interfaces, enhancing charge accumulation and interfacial polarization, thereby further strengthening energy dissipation. Meanwhile, under the confinement of the aerogel framework, metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) derived materials in the 2D magnetized micro-flakes maintain their octahedral morphology and collectively establish a continuous, stable nano-micro-macro magnetic coupling network. Moreover, the theoretical investigations including density functional theory calculations, COMSOL Multiphysics simulation, and radar cross-section simulation systematically elucidate the structure-property relationships governing dielectric behavior, magnetic properties, and absorption bandwidth. Notably, the optimized Fe/Fe<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>@C exhibits remarkable EM absorption performance, achieving a reflection loss of −48.44 dB and a broad bandwidth of 6.88 GHz at 2.15 mm thickness, fully covering the Ku band. Moreover, constructing the periodic structure enables an ultrabroadband absorption of 11.36 GHz at a thickness of only 4.15 mm. This study provides an idea for fabricating multifunctional EM wave absorbers with lightweight, broadband absorption, hydrophobic, thermal insulation, and infrared stealth properties.
[43] Sun, Jingyao,Jia, Tianyu,Lin, Ping-Ju ,等.Multiscale Canonical Coherence for Functional Corticomuscular Coupling Analysis[J].IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics,2024,28 (2):812-822,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Functional corticomuscular coupling (FCMC) probes multi-level information communication in the sensorimotor system. The canonical Coherence (caCOH) method has been leveraged to measure the FCMC between two multivariate signals within the single scale. In this paper, we propose the concept of multiscale canonical Coherence (MS-caCOH) to disentangle complex multi-layer information and extract coupling features in multivariate spaces from multiple scales. Then, we verified the reliability and effectiveness of MS-caCOH on two types of data sets, i.e., a synthetic multivariate data set and a real-world multivariate data set. Our simulation results showed that compared with caCOH, MS-caCOH enhanced coupling detection and achieved lower pattern recovery errors at multiple frequency scales. Further analysis on experimental data demonstrated that the proposed MS-caCOH method could also capture detailed multiscale spatial-frequency characteristics. This study leverages the multiscale analysis framework and multivariate method to give a new insight into corticomuscular coupling analysis.
[44] Qingli Tang,Shuoqi Zhang,Beien Zhu ,等.In Situ Reconstruction of a Cu(100) Surface for Promoted C–C Coupling in CO2Electroreduction from First-Principles Multiscale Modeling[J].ACS Catalysis,2026,16 (2):1325-1337,American Chemical Society
摘要：Copper (Cu) has attracted significant interest due to its ability to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) to multicarbon products (C2+) in electrocatalysis. C–C coupling is the key step in the formation of C2+. Recent in situ experiments have shown significant surface reconstructions of Cu in electrocatalytic carbon dioxide reduction reaction (eCO2RR) conditions, yet the atomic structures of the restructuring surface and its combined effect with interfacial water on the reaction mechanism are poorly understood. In this work, we introduced a multiscale modeling algorithm to simulate the real-time reconstruction process of a Cu(100) surface (as large as ∼35 nm × 35 nm) for 300 s using the combined grand canonical Monte Carlo (GCMC) and environmental kinetic Monte Carlo (EKMC) method. Statistical analysis reveals that zigzag-edged subnano-ribbons composed of 4-adatom units dominate the in situ formed clusters at −0.2 V vs RHE (reversible hydrogen electrode). We further use a slow-growth approach based on ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) to unveil the effect of the 4-adatom motif on CO–CO coupling in aqueous solution. This motif significantly enhances CO dimerization, achieved through interfacial hydrogen bonding, which modulates CO to a moderate activation status. Our work underscores the non-negligible role of reconstructed structures on Cu(100) at the atomic scale in electrocatalysis.
[45] Guo, Xiaodong,Zhang, Shicheng,Zhang, Jingchen ,等.Capillary-Viscoelastic Coupling and Multiscale Imbibition Dynamics in Tight Conglomerate Rocks[J].Processes,2026,14 (4),MDPI
摘要：Tight conglomerate reservoirs exhibit strong pore-scale heterogeneity and extremely low permeability, in which spontaneous imbibition is primarily governed by capillary and viscoelastic effects. In this study, the imbibition dynamics of four representative fracturing fluid systems, including slickwater, 3% potassium chloride (KCl) brine, hydrolyzed polyacrylamide (HPAM) viscoelastic fluid, and a nanoemulsion (NE), were investigated using a temperature-controlled nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) monitoring system. This approach enables real-time quantification of fluid uptake and pore-scale redistribution through time-resolved T-2 spectral analysis. The experimental results reveal a three-stage imbibition process consisting of rapid capillary-driven uptake, viscoelastic-retarded transition, and final equilibrium. Among the four fracturing fluid systems, the nanoemulsion exhibits the lowest interfacial tension (1.72 mN/m), the strongest wettability alteration, and the highest equilibrium recovery (0.76), which is nearly 80% greater than that of slickwater. Based on these observations, a multiscale capillary-viscoelastic coupling model was developed by extending the Lucas-Washburn framework to incorporate pore-size distribution, time-dependent wettability evolution, and viscoelastic damping. The model fits the experimental data well (R-2 > 0.90) and identifies viscosity as the most influential parameter controlling the imbibition rate (sensitivity = 0.78). Energy analysis further indicates that capillary energy dominates the early stage, whereas viscoelastic energy storage sustains fluid transport during the later stage. SEM observations were further used to qualitatively corroborate pore heterogeneity and pore-mineral associations, supporting the NMR-based pore-scale interpretation. This study provides a quantitative framework for describing non-Newtonian capillary flow in tight conglomerate rocks and enhances the understanding of capillary-viscoelastic interactions r
[46] Thakur Rochak Kumar Rana,Dinesh Singh,Rounak Nath ,等.Biofuel Production by Aldehyde-Deformylating Oxygenase: Insights into Spin States, Spin Coupling, and Diiron Cofactor Reactivity Using Multiscale Modeling[J].Inorganic Chemistry,2026,65 (2):1561-1573,American Chemical Society
摘要：Understanding the mechanism of metalloenzymes, particularly multimetallic active sites, remains a significant challenge due to complex spin states, spin coupling, and spin-dependent reactivity. Nevertheless, such systems, exemplified by soluble Methane Monooxygenase (sMMO) and Photosystem II, demonstrate nature’s preference for multimetallic centers to perform chemically demanding transformations. Aldehyde-Deformylating Oxygenase (ADO) catalyzes an unusual redox-neutral, O2-dependent conversion of fatty aldehydes into alkanes and formate. Despite its superficial simplicity, the reaction mechanism involves cryptic redox steps, spin-state complexity, and a nonheme {Fe–Fe} diiron center similar to sMMO. Here, we elucidate the mechanism of ADO using multiscale QM/MM modeling combined with spectroscopic calculations. We reveal an unusual μ-peroxo Fe2(III/III) intermediate with asymmetric μ-η1:η2binding, with antiferromagnetic Fe–Fe coupling that facilitates nucleophilic attack on the aldehyde carbonyl, lowering the activation barrier. An energetics–spectroscopy approach, adapted here, shows excellent agreement, validating the proposed intermediates. The formation of a thermodynamically stable peroxyhemiacetal necessitates the use of external reducing agents for turnover catalysis. Energetic analysis of all plausible metal combinations with Fe and Mn confirms that only the diiron configuration supports efficient catalysis, providing strong theoretical support for the native cofactor. These insights resolve the ADO mechanism and provide design principles for diiron enzymes, advancing biofuel production.
[47] Wan, HaiFeng,Wang, Zhenlei,Gao, Lei ,等.Multiscale modification of sulfoaluminate cement mortar using nano-calcium carbonate, polypropylene fiber and silane coupling agent: Mechanical performance, sulfate resistance and mechanism clarification[J].Construction and Building Materials,2026,522 ,ELSEVIER SCI LTD
摘要：This study develops a ternary multiscale modification strategy combining nano-calcium carbonate (NCC), polypropylene fiber (PPF), and a silane coupling agent (SCA) to improve the mechanical performance and sulfate resistance of sulfoaluminate cement (SAC) mortar. The focus is placed on the beneficial combined action of these components within the investigated dosage range, as examined through an L18 orthogonal design and comparative evaluation of single-, binary-, and ternary-modified systems. Mechanical properties and durability under 5 wt% Na2SO4 wet-dry cycling were evaluated together with mercury intrusion porosimetry (MIP), SEM, XRD, FTIR, and contact-angle analyses. Among the tested mixtures, the selected high-performing ternary formulation (5% NCC + 0.3% PPF + 1% SCA) achieved 28-day compressive and flexural strengths of 52.7 MPa and 9.4 MPa, increasing by 19.8% and 56.7%, respectively, relative to the baseline mix NFK100. After 120 days of sulfate exposure, it maintained a corrosion-resistance coefficient of approximately 1.0 and a mass loss of similar to 0.2%, markedly superior to single and binary modifications. Microstructural evidence indicates that NCC refines transport-effective pores, PPF suppresses crack development, and SCA enhances interfacial bonding while reducing internal wettability, jointly restraining sulfate ingress and phase deterioration. This study clarifies the interactive roles of NCC, PPF, and SCA across multiple scales and provides a practical design route for durable SAC materials in sulfate-rich environments.
[48] Zi-Jian Chen,Y.C. Lin,Song Zhang ,等.A continuum-field-enabled multiscale framework coupling crystal plasticity and cellular automaton for discontinuous dynamic recrystallization: Application to a nickel-based superalloy[J].Journal of Alloys and Compounds,2026,1066 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The inherent incompatibility between the discrete microstructural transitions in cellular automaton (CA) and the continuous mechanical fields in crystal plasticity finite element (CPFE) modeling poses a critical challenge for simulating discontinuous dynamic recrystallization (DDRX), often leading to numerical instability and unphysical stress jumps. To bridge this gap, this study develops a continuum-field-enabled multiscale framework that seamlessly integrates CPFE with a reformulated continuum-field CA model via a sub-grid description and a bidirectional mapping strategy. At the sub-grid level within finite elements, nucleation and grain boundary migration (GBM) are modeled as the gradual reordering of distorted lattices, described by an evolving transformation fraction rather than discrete state switches. This CA formulation is embedded at CPFE integration points through a bidirectional mapping scheme, which exchanges dislocation density, crystallographic orientation, and the updated transformation state at each timestep. This approach ensures numerical stability and physically consistent coupling between microstructure and macroscopic mechanical response. The framework accurately captures key DDRX phenomena, including progressive material softening driven by nucleation and GBM. Validation against experimental data from a nickel-based superalloy (FGH4113A) demonstrates its high-fidelity predictive capability in simulating the concurrent evolution of grain structure, stress-strain response, dislocation density, and crystallographic texture.
[49] Bociu, L.,Broussard, M.,Guidoboni, G. ,等.Comparing Interface Conditions for a 3D-0D Multiscale Interface Coupling With Applications in Tissue Perfusion[J].International Journal for Numerical Methods in Biomedical Engineering,2025,41 (2):e70017,WILEY
摘要：Many pathologies are related to hemodynamic changes occurring at the microvascular level, where small vessels pierce the tissue, perfusing it with blood. Since there is a large number of vessels of small caliber, it is impractical to model the fluid flow through each one of them separately, as it is done in the case of large arteries using, for example, the Navier-Stokes equations. As an alternative, tissue perfusion is modeled here via three-dimensional (3D) partial differential equations (PDEs) for fluid flow through deformable porous media, where blood vessels are modeled as pores within a deformable solid representing the tissue. Since it is known that the local perfusion is related to the systemic features of surrounding blood circulation, we couple the PDE system with a zero-dimensional (0D) lumped circuit model, obtained by the analogy between fluid flows in hydraulic networks and current flowing in electrical circuits. An important feature in this multiscale 3D-0D coupling is the specification of interface conditions between the 3D and the 0D parts of the system. In this article, we focus on two types of interface conditions driven by physical considerations, and compare the behavior of the solutions for the two different scenarios.
[50] Mário Miranda,Runze Li,Lucian Iorga ,等.Multiscale modelling strategy for a novel wingbox structure with increased bend-twist coupling[J].Composite Structures,2025,370 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper presents a novel multiscale modelling strategy for the early stage design of novel composite components. It includes the use of a global-local simulation approach followed by training a physics guided artificial neural network to predict composite failure indices from global-level loads. As a proof of concept, a non-conventional wingbox using the Z-Beam concept, capable of providing tailored bend-twist coupling for aeroelastic tailoring is analysed. The process begins by the application of strain-based global loads on a fully parametrised Z-Beam wingbox, after which, a structural detail of interest is analysed using a global-local approach and an evolved LaRC05 composite failure criterion. A database is created based on the repetition of the previous steps and is used to train a physics guided artificial neural network. At the end, it is observed that the proposed methodology is able to accurately predict composite failure based on global loads and design variables in a swift manner, proving itself as a valuable asset for the early design stages of novel composite concepts.
[51] Yachen Hong,Wenhan Zhang,Lina Zhao ,等.Coupling finite element and multiscale finite element methods for the non-stationary Stokes-Darcy model[J].Journal of Computational Physics,2025,530 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, we propose and analyze the multiscale finite element method for the non-stationary Stokes-Darcy model, where the permeability coefficient in the Darcy region exhibits multiscale characteristics. Our algorithm involves two main steps: offline, where we solve the multiscale basis functions in the Darcy region via parallel computation; Online, where we decouple the Stokes-Darcy equations in an implicit-explicit manner. One significant feature of the algorithm is that it solves problems on relatively coarse grids while maintaining accuracy, thus significantly reducing computational costs compared to the standard finite element method. Moreover, under the same coarse grid size, it exhibits a significant improvement in accuracy compared to the standard finite element method. Under the assumption that the permeability coefficient is periodic and independent of time, we demonstrate the stability and convergence of the resulting sequential algorithm. Finally, the capability and effectiveness of the algorithm are verified through three numerical experiments, with computational results consistent with theoretical analysis.
[52] Duan, Mingming,Luo, Dan .Multiscale coupling coordination analysis and spatial heterogeneity between blue-green space landscape stability and environmental pressures in Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, China[J].Frontiers in Earth Science,2025,13 ,FRONTIERS MEDIA SA
摘要：Understanding the interaction between blue-green space stability (BGSS) and environmental pressures (EPs) is critical for urban ecological resilience. This study developed blue-green space stability index (BGSSI) and environmental pressure indexes (EPIs) to explore their coupling coordination and spatial heterogeneity across four spatial scales (1 km, 5 km, 10 km grids, and administrative districts) in Nanchang City, China. We integrated local bivariate Moran's I, spatial regression, and a Coupling Coordination Degree Model (CCDM) to evaluate their spatial relationships. Results show that: 1) The distribution of EPIs and BGSSI exhibits spatial heterogeneity, with high pressure and low stability in the central part of the city, while in contrast, mountainous and forest areas in the suburbs had low pressure and high stability. 2) The spatial clustering results of EPIs and BGSSI indicated that the blue space represents low-low clusters as ecologically sensitive areas, the middle of the city represented high-low clusters as ecologically dangerous areas, and the green space represented low-high clusters as important ecological protection areas. The spatial regression indicated that EPIs were negatively correlated with BGSSI, and spatial autocorrelation and spatial spillover effects were observed between them, economic and population pressures have lower coefficients than other factors. 3) EPIs and BGSSI exhibited three stages and nine types of coordinated coupling relationships. As the grid expands, the proportion of Running-in stage (RS) increases, while the proportion of Coordination stage (CS) decreases. Our multiscale analysis reveals the bidirectional, scale-sensitive nature of EPs-BGSS interactions and provides a methodological framework to guide differentiated ecological planning and spatial governance.
[53] Warkentin, Andreas .On the Coupling Between Cosmological Dynamics and Quantum Behavior: A Multiscale Thermodynamic Framework[J].Entropy,2025,27 (9):976,MDPI
摘要：A multiscale thermodynamic model is considered, in which cosmological dynamics enforce persistent non-equilibrium conditions through recursive energy exchange across hierarchically ordered subsystems. The internal energy of each subsystem is recursively determined by energetic interactions with its subcomponents, forming a nested hierarchy extending up to cosmological scales. The total energy of the universe is assumed to be constant, imposing global consistency conditions on local dynamics. On the quantum scale, subsystems remain thermodynamically constrained in their accessible state space due to the unresolved energetic embedding imposed by higher-order couplings. As a result, quantum behavior is interpreted as an effective projection of unresolved thermodynamic interactions. In this view, the wave function serves as a mathematical representation of a subsystem's thermodynamic embedding, summarizing the unresolved energetic couplings with its environment, as shaped by recursive interactions across cosmological and microscopic scales. Phenomena such as zero-point energy and vacuum fluctuations are thereby understood as residual effects of structural energy constraints. Classical mechanics arises as a limiting case under full energetic resolution, while the quantum formalism reflects thermodynamic incompleteness. This formulation bridges statistical mechanics and quantum theory without metaphysical assumptions. It remains fully compatible with standard formalism, offering a thermodynamic interpretation based solely on energy conservation and hierarchical organization. All effects arise from scale-dependent resolution, not from violations of established physics.
[54] Huang, Runze,Sun, Yi,Yang, Zhiqiang .A machine learning-based multiscale modeling for analyzing gadolinia-doped ceria fracture behavior under mechano-electrochemical coupling fields[J].Computational Mechanics,2025,76 (2):363-386,SPRINGER
摘要：The fracture behavior of gadolinia-doped ceria (GDC) electrolytes under complex mechano-electrochemical conditions is significantly affected by various factors, especially when microcracks are present within the material. This paper develops an atom-to-continuum (AtC) multiscale method that integrates molecular dynamics (MD) simulations with the finite element method (FEM), utilizing a machine learning force field (MLFF), to examine the fracture behavior of CeO2 and GDC containing a central crack under varying temperatures and low oxygen partial pressures. First, leveraging the accuracy of first-principles calculations and the efficiency of MD simulations, an MLFF for partially reduced Ce4+ in GDC is developed and its accuracy is validated. Subsequently, building on fracture mechanics theory, the macroscopic structure of GDC is converted into a microscopic nanometer-scale intermediate transition model. Finally, this approach is employed to investigate the fracture toughness of CeO2 and GDC macroscopic structure under mechano-electrochemical coupling fields at varying temperatures and low oxygen partial pressures. The results reveal that the fracture toughness of CeO2 and 10GDC under mechano-electrochemical coupling fields is significantly affected by temperature, oxygen partial pressure, and the magnitude of external load. Specifically, the fracture toughness of CeO2 decreased by 34.44% at 1000 degrees C, with an external load of 0.5 MPa and logP(O-2) = - 14. For 10GDC, the fracture toughness decreased by 40.04% at 900 degrees C, with an external load of 0.5 MPa and logP(O-2) = - 18. These findings are essential for accurately predicting the fracture behavior of CeO2 and GDC electrolyte in complex operational environments.
[55] Ying Hu,Yage Qiu,Yuewei Chen ,等.Neurovascular coupling alterations related to cognitive impairment in cerebral small vessel disease: A multiscale brain network perspective[J].Progress in Neuro-Psychopharmacology and Biological Psychiatry,2025,138 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Evidence suggests that neurovascular coupling (NVC) dysfunction in cerebral small vessel disease (CSVD) may precede typical clinical and imaging manifestations. Here, we explored the underlying brain alterations of multiscale networks in CSVD patients related to cognitive impairment based on the method of NVC. We investigated 124 CSVD patients, including 70 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 54 patients with no cognitive impairment (NCI). Functional MRI and arterial spin labeling were employed to estimate the coupling of spontaneous neuronal activity and cerebral blood perfusion based on the regional homogeneity and cerebral blood flow at the whole-brain, modular, and regional levels. We showed that the NVC of the dorsal attention network (DOR), ventral attention network (VEN) and default mode network (DMN) in the MCI were significantly lower than those in the NCI. The NVC of the DOR, VEN, and DMN in the NCI group exhibited correlations with the executive function. Furthermore, mediation effect of CSVD lesion load was observed for the association between NVC alterations and cognitive function. The abnormal NVC features achieved effective classification performance for MCI and NCI. These findings underscore the significance of specific modular and regional NVC dysfunction in the cognitive outcomes of CSVD. This study revealed the potential of NVC as a focal point for future research on cognitive impairment in CSVD, particularly from the perspective of multiscale brain network analysis.
[56] Li, Pan,Huang, Jin,Zhang, Jie ,等.Multiscale Modeling of Thermo-Electro-Mechanical Coupling of BGA Solder Joints in Microelectronic Systems of Ruggedized Computers for Signal Integrity Analysis[J].Micromachines,2025,16 (11):1292,MDPI
摘要：Ruggedized computers are the core of modern communication, guidance, control, and data-processing systems, and typically operate under extreme environmental conditions. However, under extreme service conditions such as temperature cycling, vibration, and mechanical shock, thermo-electro-mechanical (TME) multi-physics coupling in ball grid array (BGA) solder joints is particularly significant, severely affecting system reliability and signal integrity. To comprehensively elucidate the effects of thermal, electrical, and mechanical fields on solder joints and signal transmission, this study proposes a multiscale multi-physics modeling and analysis framework for BGA solder joints in microelectronic systems of ruggedized computers, covering the computer system level, motherboard level, solder joint level, and solder interconnect level. A model correlation study under ten thermal cycling conditions demonstrated an accuracy of 88.89%, confirming the validity and applicability of the proposed model. Based on this validated framework and model, the temperature distribution, stress-strain response, and signal integrity characteristics were further analyzed under combined conditions of thermal cycling, random vibration, and mechanical shock. The results indicate that a rise in temperature in solder joints induces thermal stresses and deformations, while variations in electrical conductivity under thermal loading trigger electromigration and concentration evolution, which further couple with stress gradients to form TME multi-physics interactions. Under such coupling, critical solder balls exhibit stress concentration at the metallurgical interfaces, with a maximum von Mises stress of 191.51 MPa accompanied by plastic strain accumulation. In addition, the PCIe high-speed interconnect experienced a maximum deformation of 16.104 mu m and a voltage amplitude reduction of approximately 18.51% after 928 thermal cycles, exceeding the normal operating range. This research provides a
[57] 董珏娴,彭双云,崔毕婷 ,等.山地城市群“三生”空间多尺度耦合特征及其驱动机制[J].自然资源学报,2025,40 (11):3182-3200
摘要：快速城镇化加剧了“三生”空间冲突,山地城市群因地形复杂、生态脆弱,冲突呈现显著的多尺度分异特征。厘清其耦合协调关系及驱动机制,是实现国土空间精细化治理的关键。以滇中城市群为例,构建集多功能评价、耦合协调度计算与地理收敛交叉映射(GCCM)于一体的分析框架,系统解析格网、乡镇和县域三个尺度下的耦合协调特征及成因。结果表明:“三生”空间耦合协调度具有典型的尺度依赖性,随尺度变化呈非线性波动,乡镇尺度协调性最低,县域尺度协调性最高;主导驱动因子随尺度由自然转向社会经济因素递进转变,山地地形对尺度传导具调制作用。据此,提出“格网监测—乡镇调控—县域统筹”的多尺度协同治理思路,以支撑山地城市群可持续发展。
[58] Lionel Ogouari,Qiang Guo,Fahmi Zaïri ,等.Multiscale FE modeling of double-network gels with viscoelastic and anisotropic damage coupling[J].International Journal of Plasticity,2026,200 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Double-network (DN) gels exhibit an exceptional combination of stretchability, toughness, and energy dissipation, making them promising materials for soft robotics, biomedical devices, and flexible electronics. These outstanding properties arise from the interplay between a brittle, sacrificial primary network and a ductile, extensible secondary network. However, capturing the complex, anisotropic, and path-dependent mechanical response of DN gels - especially under multiaxial and non-uniform loading - remains a major modeling challenge. This work introduces a three-dimensional multiscale constitutive model that integrates progressive chain scission, anisotropic damage, viscoelastic relaxation, and inter-network interactions. The primary network is modeled as an entropic assembly of chains with stochastic lengths undergoing irreversible damage, upscaled via microsphere integration to capture directionality. The secondary network follows a generalized Maxwell formulation to reproduce rate-dependent dissipation. Energy coupling between the two networks enables the model to reflect microstructural rearrangement, directional softening, and residual anisotropy. The model is implemented as a UMAT in ABAQUS/Standard and validated against experimental data under both homogeneous and non-uniform loading conditions. It accurately captures nonlinear stress-strain behavior, hysteresis, and anisotropic softening resulting from prior deformation. In pre-notched specimens under pure shear, simulations reproduce force-displacement response, stress localization, and damage evolution up to crack initiation. An energy-based analysis highlights the roles of reversible and dissipated energy, with predicted critical energy release rates closely matching experiments across pre-stretch levels. The model offers a predictive, physically grounded framework for understanding and engineering tough, damage-resistant DN gels.
[59] Younghwan Joo,Sang Hyun Oh,Jeonghoon Han ,等.State-dependent transient model switching for electrode drying: Multiscale coupling to a multizone dryer process model[J].Thermal Science and Engineering Progress,2026,73 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Reducing energy use for the electrode drying process, which accounts for more than 38% of the total energy use in battery manufacturing, is crucial for a sustainable battery industry. However, systematic optimization of the drying process has been limited because the governing transport mechanisms evolve as solvent is removed, and conventional approaches lack an integrated treatment of these distinct stages. This study presents a novel state-dependent, dual-physics switching approach for multistage electrode-drying optimization to address the limitations of conventional methods that treat stages in isolation despite evolving transport mechanisms. At the electrode scale, the formulation employs criterion-based transient switching between models, ensuring consistent treatment of regime changes throughout the process. We develop a multiscale simulation that couples the transient electrode-scale analysis with a steady dryer process model. Using this coupled framework, we perform Bayesian optimization to identify multizone set-points that minimize energy use while satisfying the outlet moisture-content specification. Under identical throughput, the proposed method reduced total energy use by 56.4% without compromising product quality. This integrated multiscale framework can be adapted to other electrode products by incorporating their material properties, enabling material-specific efficiency improvements.
[60] Zecevic, Nenad .Multiscale catalyst model for ammonia synthesis: coupling kinetics, diffusion and deactivation[J].Reaction Kinetics, Mechanisms and Catalysis,2025,138 (6):3645-3664,SPRINGER
摘要：This study introduces a multiscale model for ammonia synthesis catalysts that integrates intrinsic kinetics, intraparticle diffusion, and deactivation mechanisms, specifically water vapor self-poisoning and long-term aging. Extending the Temkin-Pyzhev kinetic framework, the model incorporates a size-dependent self-poisoning coefficient (gamma(dp)), a time-dependent aging factor (af(t)), and a Thiele modulus-based effectiveness factor (eta). Calibrated with experimental data, it accurately predicts nitrogen consumption rates (rN2) for catalyst particle sizes ranging from 0.6 to 9.0 mm and operational lifetimes of 2 to 5 years, with errors as low as 0.8% for larger particles. Unlike traditional models, this approach quantifies reduction-induced deactivation, which significantly impacts larger particles by markedly reducing activity. Implemented in MATLAB, the model provides a predictive tool for optimizing catalyst design and reactor performance under industrial conditions. By linking microkinetic, transport, and deactivation phenomena, this work enhances the efficiency and longevity of ammonia synthesis processes, both traditional and novel.
[61] Cong Ding,Yan Zhao,Chuansheng Gong ,等.Multiscale coupling analysis of macro–micro structural fractality and chaotic behaviour in a tribological system[J].Tribology International,2026,218 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To elucidate the nonlinear dynamic behaviour of friction and the multiscale evolution of microstructures during wear, fractal theory was innovatively introduced to characterise cross-sectional microstructures, and the correlation between the wear behaviour and subsurface structural evolution was quantitatively examined. Stepwise wear experiments were performed, through which the coefficient of friction (COF), two-dimensional (2D) profiles, three-dimensional (3D) worn surface morphologies, and cross-sectional microstructures were obtained. Chaos theory and fractal analysis were respectively applied to extract the nonlinear characteristics of the COF signal and the multiscale features of the surface and subsurface structures. The results show that the low-angle grain boundaries (LAGBs) exhibit a fractional fractal dimension <em>D</em><sub>b</sub> between 1 and 2, confirming the intrinsic fractal nature of the worn subsurface. With increasing frictional stress and thermal effects, the kernel average misorientation (KAM), dislocation density, and LAGB fraction follow an increase–stabilization–increase evolution across different wear stages. Strong correlations are observed between the microstructural fractal dimension <em>D</em><sub>b</sub> and the chaotic complexity of the COF (| <em>ρ</em> | &gt; 0.8), as well as with the fractal dimensions of the 2D and 3D surface morphologies. These results demonstrate that the multiscale and highly coupled subsurface microstructure can be effectively revealed through the chaotic characteristics of the COF and the fractal features of the worn surface topography, providing a new approach for wear characterization and microstructural inference based on macroscopic measurements.
[62] Suwen Xiong,Fan Yang .Multiscale exploration of spatiotemporal dynamics in China's largest urban agglomeration: An interactive coupling perspective on human activity intensity and ecosystem health[J].Journal of Environmental Management,2025,376 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Human economic construction increasingly impacts highly sensitive ecological zones, weakening ecosystem health in cross-regional urban agglomerations. Exploring the spatiotemporal dynamics of urban agglomerations from the interactive coupling perspective between human activity intensity (HAI) and ecosystem health index (EHI) is crucial for resolving human-land conflicts. This study developed a human-land coupling assessment framework integrating human footprint and ecosystem Maintain-Bearing-Service-Resilience models. Across multiple scales, from urban agglomerations and cities to grid cells, we initially employed exploratory spatiotemporal data analysis techniques to reveal HAI and EHI evolution patterns. Subsequently, we used the four-quadrant model, coupling coordination degree (CCD), and relative development model to explore their spatiotemporal interactions. Applied to China's largest urban agglomeration, the middle reaches of the Yangtze River urban agglomerations (MRYRUA), results revealed a significant spatiotemporal mismatch pattern between HAI and EHI. High HAI and low EHI areas were widely distributed in highly urbanized waterfront plains. At the urban agglomeration scale, HAI and EHI exhibited spatiotemporal differentiation patterns extending toward polarization along the Yangtze River Economic Belt, while their correlation intensity among cities indicated conflicting development patterns. At the grid scale, the spatiotemporal clustering pattern highlighted waterfront built-up areas as HAI hotspots and peripheral forest zones as EHI hotspots. The interactive relationship between HAI and EHI shifted increasingly towards Quadrant IV as HAI rose. The coupling levels between HAI and EHI will tend toward misalignment as urbanization advances, although current CCD shows positive trends. This study offers scientific guidance for achieving sustainable development in urban agglomerations across multiple scales.
[63] Vilas Sawant, Omkar,Bhowmick, Anirban .Bridging Domain Gaps With ProtoAlign: Teacher-Student Few-Shot Prototype Alignment for Cross-Domain Spoken Language Recognition[J].IEEE Access,2026,14 :10635-10653,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Spoken language recognition in low-resource settings is hindered by domain shift and limited labeled data. We propose ProtoAlign, a teacher-student few-shot prototype alignment framework that learns domain-invariant, language-discriminative representations with minimal target supervision. The student uses a compact transformer-style backbone with Feature Reweighting Layer (FRL). Source-domain class prototypes are maintained as exponential moving averages and serve as stable anchors. A target-to-source Information Noise Contrastive Estimate(InfoNCE) alignment term pulls few-shot target embeddings toward their language-matched source prototypes, while a lightweight knowledge-distillation loss from a source-only teacher preserves source accuracy. Warm-start schedules for the alignment and distillation weights stabilize optimization, and a pairing sampler ensures each batch contains target samples with same-language source counterparts. We evaluate language recognition performance across five heterogeneous domains, namely All India Radio (AIR), Common Voice (CV), Kaggle, the Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad (IIT-H), and Indic TTS datasets. With at most ten labeled target examples per language, ProtoAlign consistently outperforms a strong transformer baseline in cross-domain tests and produces visibly tighter, more domain-invariant clusters in the embedding space. These results indicate that prototype anchoring combined with gentle teacher guidance provides a simple, scalable, and label-efficient path to robust cross-domain spoken language recognition.
[64] Ruikai Liu,Ruiqi Li,Qingwei Dong ,等.Bridging the semantic gap: Trajectory-guided domain repair for reliable planning[J].Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing,2026,101 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Symbolic planning for manufacturing robotics is undermined by brittle domain models. While Large Language Models can generate PDDL (Planning Domain Definition Language) domains from language, they often introduce subtle flaws like weak preconditions or incomplete effects. These flaws create a critical semantic gap where syntactically correct plans fail in physical execution, posing a major challenge to robot reliability. We introduce a framework for trajectory-guided domain repair that systematically aligns symbolic models with physical reality. Its two-stage feedback loop first uses an Iterative Beam Widening search to select a compact, informative set of trajectories, minimizing the interaction cost—i.e., the number of environment interactions (EI). Second, it performs failure attribution for execution errors — distinguishing between flawed preconditions and upstream effects — and generates structured hints to guide the LLM’s repair. Validated across twelve benchmarks, including an industrial simulation and a physical robot, our framework achieves a state-of-the-art execution success rate of 71.2%, outperforming all compared baselines under the same evaluation protocol. Notably, this performance is obtained with substantially lower interaction cost, requiring an average of 231 EI per task, which corresponds to a near order-of-magnitude reduction compared to the 2014 EI required by exploration-based methods. Our results highlight a practical path toward bridging the gap between high-level symbolic reasoning and robust physical execution, enhancing the reliability of LLM-driven automation in complex manufacturing environments.
[65] Xu, Xin,Liu, Jianping,Zhang, Weigang ,等.Integrated multiscale characterization of tight sandstone reservoirs in the Taiyuan Formation, Q area, Ordos Basin: implications for diagenetic-structural coupling and reservoir evaluation[J].Petroleum Science and Technology,2026,44 (14):2242-2261,TAYLOR & FRANCIS INC
摘要：Recent exploration breakthroughs in Taiyuan Formation in the Q area have confirmed economically viable gas production. To analyze the reservoir characteristics in depth, this study establishes a predictive reservoir evaluation framework by integrating multiscale sedimentological, diagenetic, and structural analyses using core, thin sections, scanning electron microscopy, mercury injection and nuclear magnetic resonance data. The results indicate: i) Taiyuan Formation mainly composed of lithic quartz sandstone, followed by quartz sandstone and lithic sandstone. The pore is mainly composed of intergranular, vuggy, microcrystalline pores, and microfractures. ii) The favorable reservoir has a mercury injection curve of Y1 type and a nuclear magnetic resonance T-2 spectrum curve of H1 type. iii) The reservoirs are influenced by structure movements, sedimentary facies, and diagenesis. Gas wells are mainly located in high positions of the structure, while the structure movements have some impact on the formation of structural fractures. The favorable facies zones of the Taiyuan Formation are tidal channels and barrier sandbar microfacies, and diagenesis plays a decisive role in the later reconstruction of reservoirs. This work introduces an innovative "structure-sediment-diagenesis coupling" method to analyze reservoir, and the proposed reservoir evaluation criteria provide a rapid screening tool for sweet-spot identification in similar geological backgrounds.
[66] YiSong Li,LiWei Zou,MingXing Nie ,等.Bridging domain and instance gaps: A prototype contrastive framework for robust human activity recognition[J].Neurocomputing,2026,673 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The primary challenge in deploying Human Activity Recognition (HAR) systems in real-world scenarios stems from cross-domain distribution shifts and intra-domain semantic variations. Conventional approaches predominantly rely on domain adaptation methods to align marginal distributions, yet critically overlook the issue of instance-level discrepancies arising from heterogeneous user behaviors and sensor characteristics. To address these dual challenges, we introduce a prototype-based contrastive learning framework, named PCL-HAR, that establishes coherent semantic structures across domains through multi-granular alignment. Our framework innovatively integrates: (1) intra-class prototype condensation that enhances feature compactness within each activity category, (2) cross-domain prototype correspondence establishment based on optimal transport theory, and (3) nearest-instance contrastive refinement that bridges sample-level discrepancies. We evaluate our method on a custom Long Range(LoRa) HAR dataset and three public HAR benchmarks: WISDM, HHAR, and WiFi CSI. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art domain adaptation baselines, achieving 88.5% accuracy on the HHAR dataset. Comprehensive ablation studies and t-SNE visualizations further validate the effectiveness of each proposed component. Our method provides a robust and generalizable solution for real-world cross-domain HAR applications.
[67] Ning Luo,Yabo Chai,Penglong Li ,等.Dynamic Fracture Characteristics and Multiscale Structural Evolution in Bedded Shale under Thermo-Mechanical Coupling Effect[J].Energy & Fuels,2026,40 (2):1080-1101,American Chemical Society
摘要：Methane in situ explosive fracturing (MISEF) has emerged as a frontier technique to enhance stimulation efficiency in deep, low-permeability shale reservoirs. However, it poses significant scientific challenges in understanding the fracture behavior and microstructural evolution of shale under coupled transient thermal and dynamic loading. To investigate the multiscale thermo-mechanical response of shale, dynamic semicircular bending tests and high-resolution 3D CT analyses were conducted on NSCB specimens preconditioned at various temperatures (100–450 °C) and bedding angles (0°–90° and no bedding). A modified dynamic stress intensity factor (DSIF) model was developed to account for shale anisotropy and accurately quantify fracture toughness. The results show that fracture resistance and energy dissipation are strongly governed by the coupling of temperature and bedding orientation, exhibiting pronounced anisotropic and nonlinear characteristics. Low-angle specimens displayed tortuous crack paths and higher energy absorption, reflecting enhanced fracture toughness and sensitivity to thermal effects. In contrast, high-angle specimens underwent brittle failure along pre-existing weak planes, with a critical thermal transition zone identified between 150 and 250 °C. The dominant failure mode shifted from mixed-mode (shear–tensile) trans-bedding fracture to tensile-dominated propagation parallel to bedding. Thermal effects distinctly influenced fracture surface morphology: cross-bedding fracture roughness followed a decrease–increase trend with temperature, whereas bedding-parallel surfaces exhibited significant roughening beyond 200 °C, indicative of thermally induced interfacial debonding and mineral structure breakdown. All loading conditions promoted transitions in pore–throat configurations, enhancing multiscale flow connectivity through different mechanisms. Dynamic impact triggered structural decoupling and preferential fracture paths, while thermal loading prom
[68] Wang, Wei,Jiang, Feng,Wang, Xin .MPCGNet: A Multiscale Feature Extraction and Progressive Feature Aggregation Network Using Coupling Gates for Polyp Segmentation[M].2025 INTERNATIONAL JOINT CONFERENCE ON NEURAL NETWORKS (IJCNN),2025,IEEE
摘要：Automatic segmentation methods of polyps is crucial for assisting doctors in colorectal polyp screening and cancer diagnosis. Despite the progress made by existing methods, polyp segmentation faces several challenges: (1) small-sized polyps are prone to being missed during identification, (2) the boundaries between polyps and the surrounding environment are often ambiguous, (3) noise in colonoscopy images, caused by uneven lighting and other factors, affects segmentation results. To address these challenges, this paper introduces coupling gates as components in specific modules to filter noise and perform feature importance selection. Three modules are proposed: the coupling gates multiscale feature extraction (CGMFE) module, which effectively extracts local features and suppresses noise;the windows cross attention (WCAD) decoder module, which restores details after capturing the precise location of polyps;and the decoder feature aggregation (DFA) module, which progressively aggregates features, further extracts them, and performs feature importance selection to reduce the loss of small-sized polyps. Experimental results demonstrate that MPCGNet outperforms recent networks, with mDice scores 2.20% and 0.68% higher than the second-best network on the ETIS-LaribPolypDB and CVC-ColonDB datasets, respectively.
[69] Chen, Tao,Xia, Xin,Xia, Mengyao ,等.The Roller Nanodefect Detection Method for Si3N4 Ceramic Bearings Based on Multiscale Fuzzy Connectivity Active Contour Coupling Segmentation Algorithm[J].Journal of Materials Engineering and Performance,2026,35 (16):15985-15998,SPRINGER
摘要：Aiming at the problem that the traditional single algorithm cannot realize the accurate identification of Si3N4 bearing roller nanodefect images with low background contrast. A method for detecting nanodefects of Si3N4 bearing rollers based on a multiscale fuzzy connectivity active contour coupling segmentation algorithm is proposed. Combining the fuzzy features of nanodefect images, the mean filter matrix equation is designed to achieve image denoising and smoothing. Based on the fuzzy connection relationship segmentation, the initial contour of nanodefects is obtained. Analyzing the gradual change of defect and background in nanodefect images, the homomorphic filter function equation is defined to realize contrast enhancement of nanodefect images. The active contour model is built, and the initial contour evolves and iterates until it fits with the image defect contour. The characteristic image of nanodefects in Si3N4 bearing rollers is identified. After the noise reduction and enhancement processes, the average SSIM (structural similarity index measure) of Si3N4 bearing roller nanodefect images is 93.54%. The average PSNR (peak signal-to-noise ratio) is 33.83 dB. And the recognition accuracy of different types of defects in nanofeature images is not less than 93%.
[70] Li, Zi,Yang, Qingcheng .Interfacial Consistency and Convergence Analysis of Multiscale Coupling Method Based on Bilinear Interpolation[J].力学季刊,2025,46 (3):631-648,Editorial Office of Chinese Quarterly of Mechanic
摘要：Interface consistency and error convergence are central issues in concurrent multiscale computational methods, particularly critical for atomistic-to-continuum coupling models. However, existing theoretical studies remain limited and are mostly confined to one-dimensional settings. This work focuses on the multiresolution molecular mechanics (MMM) approach and systematically investigates the impact of various energy sampling schemes on interface consistency and error convergence. Two-dimensional square and triangular lattice models containing both atomistic and coarse-grained regions are constructed under bilinear element interpolation. The results show that interface secondary sampling schemes can significantly improve consistency in the interfacial region, with the scheme incorporating all neighboring layers achieving the best performance. Error analysis reveals that discretization error dominates the total error, and increasing the number of secondary sampling points effectively reduces the sampling error, particularly under tensile loading conditions. Moreover, both lattice types exhibit consistent error convergence behavior, demonstrating high generality of the method to different structures. This study highlights the advantages of energy sampling strategies in improving interface treatment and convergence behavior in MMM, providing theoretical support for the development of high-accuracy multiscale computational mechanics methods. © 2025, Editorial Office of Chinese Quarterly of Mechanic. All rights reserved.
[71] Park, Tae Ha,D'amico, Simone .Bridging the Domain Gap for Flight-Ready Spaceborne Vision[J].Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets,2026,63 (1):289-307,AMER INST AERONAUTICS ASTRONAUTICS
摘要：This work presents Spacecraft Pose Network v3 (SPNv3), a neural network (NN) for monocular pose estimation of a known, non-cooperative target spacecraft. SPNv3 is designed and trained to be computationally efficient while providing robustness to spaceborne images that have not been observed during offline training and validation on the ground. These characteristics are essential to deploying NNs on space-grade edge devices. They are achieved through careful NN design choices, and an extensive tradeoff analysis reveals features such as data augmentation, transfer learning, and vision transformer architecture as a few of those that contribute to simultaneously maximizing robustness and minimizing computational overhead. Experiments demonstrate that the final SPNv3 can achieve state-of-the-art pose accuracy on hardware-in-the-loop images from a robotic testbed while having trained exclusively on computer-generated synthetic images, effectively bridging the domain gap between synthetic and real imagery. At the same time, SPNv3 runs well above the update frequency of modern satellite navigation filters when tested on a representative graphical processing unit system with flight heritage. Overall, SPNv3 is an efficient, flight-ready NN model readily applicable to close-range rendezvous and proximity operations with target resident space objects.
[72] Liu, Siyuan,Fan, Yingchao,Hu, Qi ,等.SSMSFuse: A Spectral and Spatial Multiscale Coupling Fusion Model for Hyperspectral and Multispectral Image[J].IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing,2025,18 :17310-17327,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Hyperspectral image (HSI) has more spectral information than conventional images, which helps to distinguish targets in a complex scene more accurately. However, HSI typically has a low spatial resolution, which limits their application scenarios. To achieve high-resolution HSI, we propose a spectral and spatial multiscale coupling fusion model (SSMSFuse) for hyperspectral and multispectral image (MSI). SSMSFuse couples the spatial information of MSI and the spectral information of HSI at multiscales by means of a two-branch network structure, thus obtaining the fused images with high spatial and spectral resolution. SSMSFuse consists of two branches, namely the spatial embedding network (Spa-Net) and the spectral embedding network (Spe-Net). Spa-Net is constructed using a multiscale convolutional neural network to better mine multilevel spatial features from MSI. Spe-Net is constructed using self-attention, which can model the long-distance spectral dependencies of HSI to better extract spectral information from HSI. Finally, to achieve interactive coupling of dual-branch information, we designed a spatial-spectral guidance fusion block to fuse features at different scales to avoid loss of spatial and spectral details. Experiments are carried out on four public datasets, and the results show that the proposed method can effectively improve the objective indicators of the fusion results, such as the peak signal to noise ratio, which is increased by 1.36%, and the root mean square error, which is increased by 9.72% on the CAVE dataset, and satisfactory subjective results are also obtained.
[73] Kaiyan Jin,Jin Zhao,Guice Yao ,等.A fully coupled multiscale phase-change model at the porous interface for transpiration cooling: coupling dynamics pore-scale networks to continuum-scale free flow[J].International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer,2025,236, Part 2 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Being a promising method for thermal protection system, transpiration cooling has received wide interest recently. Numerical simulation for transpiration cooling, however, has been limited due to the mis-matching between the pore-scale two-phase flow and external high-temperature aerothermodynamic environment, which induced by conventional decoupled or iterative one-way coupled simplification methods. In this work, a fully coupled continuum-scale and pore-scale model is established for transient transpiration cooling at the interface between boundary layer flow and porous medium through coupling Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) and Pore-Network Model (PNM), termed as the multiscale CFD-PNM coupled method. The coupled method allows to capture detailed displacement and phase change of two-phase flow at pore-scale, revealing the strong interaction of the water vapor with the external free flow within a high temperature boundary layer. After successfully validating the new coupled model by comparing with the Two-Phase Mixture Model (TPMM) solution, a number of cases mimicking the cooling at the interface of typical blunt bodies are simulated. The results show that the multiscale CFD-PNM coupled method can not only provide the thermal protection effect prediction, but also reveal many critical features that beyond the reach of continuum-scale studies. Some pore-scale phenomena that are important to the overall transpiration cooling effects are revealed, including transient phase change and composition variation of water vapor, imbibition and drainage of two-phase flow related to pore-scale capillary thresholds and applied boundary pressures, as well as the two-way mass transfer at the interface, such as the invasion of external hot air.
[74] Juganta K. Roy,Mona Abdelgaid,Henrik Grönbeck ,等.Dynamic Catalysis Multiscale Simulations for Nonoxidative Coupling of Methane Using Light and Heat[J].ACS Catalysis,2025,15 (2):1195-1205,American Chemical Society
摘要：Methane (CH4) activation and conversion under mild reaction conditions are a great challenge for the chemical industry. Photocatalysis is attractive for activating inert C–H bonds of CH4at room temperature. Specifically, photocatalytic nonoxidative coupling of CH4(NOCM) is a promising process to produce ethane (C2-hydrocarbon) and H2. Different oxide-based photocatalysts have been used for room-temperature NOCM, and TiO2is a potential photocatalyst with a bandgap that can capture photons in the UV region. However, a fundamental understanding of the NOCM mechanism on TiO2is still missing. Herein, we apply multiscale modeling, combining density functional theory (DFT) calculations with kinetic Monte Carlo (kMC) simulations to investigate the photocatalytic NOCM on a rutile TiO2(110) surface. DFT calculations revealed that the photogenerated holes mediate the homolytic activation of CH4via the formation of methyl radicals with an activation barrier that is 70% lower than that of the conventional thermocatalytic route. The generated methyl radicals further recombine to form ethane. The detailed reaction pathway energetics investigated with DFT-based kMC simulations revealed that ethane can be formed at 315.15 K, but the dissociated hydrogens poison the catalyst surface. Further thermocatalytic simulations revealed that increasing the temperature by thermal heating (ca. 690.15 K) facilitated H2formation and catalyst regeneration. Importantly, we demonstrate how photo- and thermocatalytic modes can be combined, facilitating NOCM on TiO2and a route to enable dynamic catalysis simulations through multiscale modeling, opening alternative avenues in computational catalyst discovery.
[75] Yu, Yang,Ni, Rongrong,Yang, Siyuan ,等.Narrowing Domain Gaps With Bridging Samples for Generalized Face Forgery Detection[J].IEEE Transactions on Multimedia,2024,26 :3405-3417,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Face forgery technology has developed rapidly, causing severe security issues in society. Recently, with the continuous emergence of forgery techniques and types, most forensics methods suffer from the generalization problem. In particular, it is difficult for existing generalized methods to detect fake faces with unseen fake types. The reason is that the distribution gaps among cross-forgery types are too large. In this article, we propose a novel generalized framework to narrow large gaps based on bridging cross-domain alignment to solve this problem. Specifically, our framework consists of three key steps: preventing, bridging and aligning distribution gaps. Firstly, in the feature mining stage, taking advantage of the ability of Instance Normalization (IN) to better tolerate domain gaps, we design Adaptive Batch and Instance Normalization (ABIN) to replace the commonly used BN to adaptively extract features to preliminarily prevent domain gaps. Secondly, we propose to generate bridging samples distributed among the inter-domains to fill large gaps based on progressive linear interpolation operation. Finally, with the help of bridging samples, the cross-domain alignment is performed to better narrow distribution gaps to refine data distribution, which helps to learn a more generalized framework. Extensive experiments show that our proposed framework achieves the state-of-the-art generalized performance.
[76] Yu, Chang,She, Qingshan,Houston, Michael ,等.Multiscale Intermuscular Coupling Analysis via Complex Network-Based High-Order O-Information[J].IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering,2025,33 :310-320,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Intermuscular coupling analysis (IMC) provides important clues for understanding human muscle motion control and serves as a valuable reference for the rehabilitation assessment of stroke patients. However, the higher-order interactions and microscopic characteristics implied in IMC are not fully understood. This study introduced a multiscale intermuscular coupling analysis framework based on complex networks with O-Information (Information About Organizational Structure). In addition, to introduce microscopic neural information, sEMG signals were decomposed to obtain motor units (MU). We applied this framework to data collected from experiments on three different upper limb movements. Graph theory-based analysis revealed significant differences in muscle network connectivity across the various upper limb movement tasks. Furthermore, the community division based on MU showed a mismatch between the distribution of muscle and motor neuron inputs, with a reduction in the dimension of motor unit control during multi-joint activity tasks. O-Information was used to explore higher-order interactions in the network. The analysis of redundant and synergistic information within the network indicated that numerous low-order synergistic subsystems were present while sEMG networks and MU networks were predominantly characterized by redundant information. Moreover, the graph features of macroscopic and microscopic network exhibit promising classification accuracy under KNN, showing the potential for engineering applications of the proposed framework.
[77] Yeyu Zou,Yili Kang,Mingjun Chen ,等.Multiscale insights into CH 4 /CO 2 desorption-diffusion under thermal-pressure-moisture coupling in deep coalbed methane nano-confined[J].Chemical Engineering Science,2026,320, Part B ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Understanding the anomalous desorption-diffusion behavior induced by water molecules in deep-seated coal reservoirs is essential for optimizing coalbed methane (CBM) extraction and CO<sub>2</sub> geological sequestration. This study investigates CH<sub>4</sub>/CO<sub>2</sub> desorption-adsorption in deep coalbed methane reservoirs using GCMC and MD simulations under thermal-pressure-moisture coupling. Results show that nanoconfinement effects enhance gas adsorption, with CO<sub>2</sub> outperforming CH<sub>4</sub> due to stronger quadrupole interactions. Moisture suppresses adsorption via competitive site occupation and capillary blockage, while increasing diffusion activation energy by 51–80%. The thermal-pressure-moisture multi-field coupling synergy effect indicates that the diffusion capacity of CH<sub>4</sub> is 10%-15% higher than that of CO<sub>2</sub>. As the pore size increases, the diffusion capacity of gases also increases, suggesting that the influence of the multi-field coupling effect on the pore size can be disregarded. Ultra-low water saturation dynamically regulates gas pathways through water redistribution. These molecular insights advance CO<sub>2</sub>-driven CH<sub>4</sub> recovery strategies and deep coalbed methane extraction with CO<sub>2</sub> sequestration.
[78] Yunxing Wu,Youzhu Zhao,Delong Liu ,等.Multiscale synergistic evolution of China's water-land-energy-food-carbon system: Static-dynamic coupling analysis across sectoral, regional, and national levels[J].Ecological Indicators,2026,186 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Against the background of increasingly stringent resource and environmental constraints, the coupling among water, land, energy, food, and carbon emissions has continued to intensify, and the multi-element system has become highly complex. Existing studies rarely examine coupling mechanisms from a sectoral perspective and lack a dynamic characterization of system co-evolution, which limits the identification of potential synergies and structural trade-offs within the nexus. To address these gaps, this study proposes a multi-scale analytical framework at sectoral, regional, and national levels for the Water-Land-Energy-Food-Carbon (<em>W-L-E-F-C</em>) system. By integrating the coupling coordination degree and dynamic synergy degree, the framework evaluates synergy and trade-off relationships among the five subsystems and the overall <em>W-L-E-F-C</em> system from both static structural and dynamic evolutionary perspectives, thus addressing the shortcomings of existing research in terms of sectoral heterogeneity and system evolution mechanisms. The results showed that: (1) China's <em>W-L-E-F-C</em> system exhibited a moderately high level of coupling coordination. At the sectoral level, industrial sectors showed generally strong internal coupling coordination, whereas coupling between services sectors and some industrial sectors was weak, indicating pronounced sectoral heterogeneity. (2) Dynamic synergy degree analysis identified the land, energy, and carbon subsystems as key contributors to system Non synergy. (3) The static-dynamic coupling analysis revealed that parts of Southwest China and Central China maintained high static coordination, while Northwest China and North China displayed insufficient dynamic synergy, presenting an overall state of Static synergy-Dynamic trade-off. These findings provide a scientific basis for identifying weak links in sectoral and regional coordination in China and for optimizing resource allocation.
[79] Kumar, Anil,Gupta, Lavisha,Alam, Shamim ,等.Bridging the Gap Between Problem and Solution Space with Domain-Driven Design[M].EMERGING TRENDS IN INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGIES, WORLDCIST 2025, VOL 4,2026,1583 :179-192,SPRINGER INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING AG
摘要：Domain-Driven Design (DDD) is a transformative approach in modern software development, focusing on the deep understanding and modeling of core business domains to develop solutions that closely align with organizational goals and real-world complexities. This paper examines the importance of DDD in bridging the gap between technical implementations and business requirements. It highlights the challenges faced by development teams, such as misalignment between business needs and technical solutions, communication barriers, and the complexity of translating domain knowledge into code. DDD offers a structured approach to address these issues by fostering collaboration between developers and domain experts, thereby facilitating the creation of software that is more resilient, maintainable, and adaptable. Key DDD principles-including Ubiquitous Language, Bounded Contexts, Entities, Value Objects, and Aggregates-are explored in depth. These concepts enable developers to accurately capture and represent business logic, promoting consistency and clarity across the system. To illustrate the practical application of DDD, this paper presents a case study in the context of a multidisciplinary domain involving the automatic generation of hardware and software in plant engineering. The case study demonstrates how DDD principles have been applied within Siemens to transform a complex, multidisciplinary domain into a cohesive and scalable software architecture. By implementing DDD, organizations can enhance its ability to deliver high-quality software solutions fostering innovation and operational excellence. This exploration serves as a guide for industries seeking to harness DDD to solve complex, domain-driven challenges.
[80] Songsong Bai,Zongqing Zhou,Chenglu Gao ,等.An FDM–DEM bridging domain coupling simulation method considering blasting dynamic disturbance for tunnel excavation[J].Computational Particle Mechanics,2025,12 (5):3985-4001,Elsevier Science
摘要：An FDM–DEM bridging domain coupling method considering blasting dynamic disturbance was proposed for the construction process of drilling and blasting tunnels. In the simulation, the disturbed rock mass was established by particles, and other elastic areas (less affected or not affected by blasting) were modeled using FDM grids. An equivalent application strategy of blasting dynamic loads in DEM was proposed. The blasting effect of group hole explosion was equivalently applied to the tunnel face. The accuracy and reliability of the coupling model were demonstrated by analyzing the distribution of velocity, displacement, and stress during the blasting loading and tunnel excavation process. The necessity of simulating tunnel blasting excavation was investigated by comparing the results of dynamic and static simulation. This study can provide an effective numerical simulation method for tunnel excavation at the engineering scale.
[81] Lianying Chao,Kai Zhang,Xubin Li ,等.Multi-modal large language model-based image captioning algorithm in information and communication technology: Bridging the gap between general and industry domain[J].Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence,2026,177 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) industry, training a domain-specific Large Language Model (LLM) or constructing a retrieval-augmented generation system requires a substantial amount of high-value domain knowledge. However, this knowledge resides not only in text but also in images. Traditional methods can parse text from domain documents but lack image captioning ability. Multi-Modal Large Language Models (MLLMs) understand images but lack sufficient domain expertise. To address this, this paper proposes a multi-stage progressive training strategy for a Domain-specific Image Captioning Model (DICModel) in the ICT domain and constructs a standard evaluation system. Specifically, we synthesize 7233 image-text pairs via the Mermaid tool and LLMs for the first-stage Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) of DICModel. Then, ICT domain experts manually annotate 2274 pairs for the second-stage SFT. Finally, experts and LLMs jointly build 1573 Visual Question Answering (VQA) data for instruction-based SFT. Experimental results indicate that our DICModel achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance in both diagram parsing and VQA tasks. With only 7 billion parameters, DICModel outperforms 32 billion parameter SOTA models. In the parsing task, it increases the Bilingual Evaluation Understudy (BLEU) metric by 56.8% and 20.8% compared to SOTA models with 7 and 32 billion parameters, respectively. In the VQA task, DICModel surpasses 32 billion parameter MLLMs by 1% in accuracy on objective questions constructed by ICT experts. In summary, this work can efficiently extract logical text from images, promoting the development of multi-modal models in the ICT domain.
[82] Linyuan Lu,Guoqiang Wang,Yunhao Wang ,等.Multiscale multiphysics coupling analysis of UO2 –SiCw accident-tolerant fuel with optimized whisker orientation[J].Nuclear Engineering and Technology,2026,58 (3),Elsevier Science
摘要：Doping with high thermal conductivity second-phase materials such as SiC is a promising strategy for enhancing fuel performance. This study focuses on SiC whiskers (SiC<sub>w</sub>) and evaluates the feasibility of further enhancing in-reactor fuel performance via orientation optimization through a multiscale and multi-physics coupling approach. A whisker generation finite element (FEM) algorithm is developed to construct random or aligned SiC<sub>w</sub>. Based on the FEM model, the anisotropic effects of whisker orientation on thermal conductivity, thermal expansion coefficient, Young's modulus, and Poisson's ratio are investigated. Interfacial thermal resistance is also incorporated into the FEM model, and the results show that the predicted thermal conductivity agrees well with experimental data, with an error of only 8.16 %. A COMSOL-based multi-physics model is built, incorporating heat transfer, stress-strain, burnup, thermal and irradiation creep, porosity evolution, fission gas behavior, swelling, densification, and gas plenum pressure. The model is validated against the BISON and CAMPUS codes. The results show that, compared with UO<sub>2</sub> and randomly dispersed UO<sub>2</sub>-15 vol% SiC<sub>w</sub>, the UO<sub>2</sub>-15 vol% SiC<sub>w</sub>op exhibits notable improvements, including reductions in peak temperature (1307 → 1166→1074 K), radial temperature gradient (1430 → 1130→938 K/cm), and fission gas plenum pressure (21.00 → 19.70→19.06 MPa), as well as delaying fuel-cladding gap closure time (841 → 910→944 MWh/kgU). Furthermore, the axial temperature distribution and displacement remain stable, and cladding stress is well below the yield strength of Zr cladding. These findings theoretically demonstrate the feasibility of further enhancing fuel performance through the optimization of second-phase structure.
[83] Xu, Qin,Wei, Jie,Zhang, Meng ,等.Bridging the Style Gap: Style-Guided Distillation Domain Adaptation for Hyperspectral Image Classification[J].IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing,2025,63 ,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Land cover in different hyperspectral images (HSIs) commonly exhibits style differences and similarities in the same category and distinct categories. However, most of the existing cross-scene HSI classification methods overlook this issue and only conduct the feature-level alignment with unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA). To address this limitation, we propose the style-guided distillation domain adaptation (SGDDA) for HSI classification. First, a Fourier transform-based style transfer (FTST) module is proposed to generate an enhanced source HSI. It transfers stylistic features from the target domain (TD) to the source domain (SD) by substituting low-frequency components, thereby preserving semantic invariance while bridging their style gap. Second, the dual-path knowledge distillation (DPKD) module is designed to reduce ambiguity in category assignment for the SD. This is achieved through cross-domain consistency learning between original SD samples and their enhanced style-transferred counterparts, ensuring robust feature alignment across domains. Third, unlike existing methods that primarily utilize a classification threshold to select pseudo-label for target samples, we propose the confidence-aware dual pseudo-label consensus (CADPLC) strategy. This strategy dynamically selects the reliable pseudo-labels by leveraging both class prototype matching and teacher-student prediction consensus, eliminating reliance on fixed thresholds and significantly improving adaptation to the TD. Experiments on three benchmark datasets demonstrate the superiority of the proposed SGDDA in comparison with several state-of-the-art methods. The code is available at https://***/Wei-spvl/SGDDA
[84] Sahoo, Rashmiranjan,Gupta, Ketan Prabhunath,Ganesh, Aakriti Shankar ,等.Management of multi-recurrent giant incisional hernia with loss of domain: a multimodal approach using BTA, PPP, and TAR with peritoneal bridging[J].Hernia,2026,30 (1):186-186,SPRINGER
[85] Yingchun Ding,Yunhua Xu,Haiqiang Bai ,等.Multiscale Modeling Strategy for Enhancing Electrocatalytic Activities of CuPd Alloy Nanoparticles Generated on Cu(111) Facet for C–N Coupling in Induced [Bmim][BF4] Ionic Liquid and pH-Dependent Microenvironments[J].ACS Catalysis,2025,15 (16):14009-14020,American Chemical Society
摘要：The tandem electrocatalytic reduction of carbon dioxide (CO2) and nitrate (NO3–) produces high-value organonitrogen compounds via C–N coupling. This strategy is effective for carbon-neutralization and environmental pollution control, especially for acetamide and urea synthesis applications, which are attracting increasing attention. However, the C–N coupling reaction in this technological process still presents many challenges, the most important of which are addressing the low C–N coupling efficiency and selectivity of the target products and identifying the key intermediates and catalytic mechanism. Fortunately, C–N coupling can occur between ketene (*CCO) and ammonia (NH3) or carbon monoxide (*CO) and hydroxylamine (NH2OH), as has been identified by experiment. The coupling of *CCO and NH3forms a *CC(OH)NH2intermediate via nucleophilic attack. Copper–palladium (CuPd) nanoparticles (NPs), a potential class of catalysts derived from the Cu(111) facet via Cu/Pd thermal reduction, have recently attracted extensive attention because of their promising electrochemical properties, which make them potential electrocatalysts for the CO2reduction reaction (CO2RR) and expand the applications of Cu-based materials. We modeled the electrode double layer (EDL) at the CuPd catalyst interface, which was modulated using 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate ([Bmim][BF4]) ionic liquid (IL) and a pH-dependent (acidic, neutral, and alkaline) microenvironment. We included a series of anions and cations to study their electrode potentials. The [Bmim]+cation played a crucial role in enriching local CO2and stabilizing carbon-based intermediates. Our density functional theory (DFT) calculations showed limiting potentials of −0.97 (neutral) and −0.71 V (acidic) for producing acetamide and urea on CuPd NPs, respectively, indicating remarkable CO2-integrated NO3–coreduction activity to acetamide and urea. Furthermore, the ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) method was employed to ex
[86] Junjun Guo,Yifan Liu,Zhengtao Yu .Bridging sparse domain semantics via an asymmetric siamese framework with virtual anchor guidance for domain-specific multimodal translation[J].Artificial Intelligence,2026,350 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Domain-specific Multimodal Neural Machine Translation (DMNMT) aims to translate text in specialized domains by leveraging both linguistic context and associated visual information to resolve domain-specific ambiguities and enhance terminological accuracy. Although accompanying images often provide sparse and fragmented visual cues that could potentially anchor critical domain semantics, the semantic mapping from images to textual domain semantics typically exhibits sparse multi-focal alignment challenges. Existing general-domain multimodal neural machine translation (MNMT) models and large language models (LLMs) struggle to achieve accurate aggregation of domain-salient information, often resulting in near-equivalent yet imprecise terminology translations or outright errors. To bridge this sparse domain semantic correspondence gap, we introduce the Asymmetric Siamese Multimodal Fusion (ASMF) framework, which decouples domain representation learning into two complementary branches that both consume text: a domain-specific virtual visual content generation (DVVG) branch and a terminology-aware textual (TAT) branch. The DVVG branch distills sparse, localized visual features into modality-agnostic semantic anchors through mask-constrained multi-focal distillation, while the TAT branch captures terminology-dense textual context. We introduce a novel Domain-Virtualized Pivot-driven Hierarchical Fusion (DVPH) strategy that progressively injects distilled visual anchors across encoder layers. This asymmetric dual-branch design effectively couples spatially fragmented visual details with terminology-rich text, enabling accurate and domain-consistent translations even for low-frequency terms. Extensive experiments were conducted on four benchmark datasets covering three distinct scenarios: two domain-specific datasets (Fashion-MMT and EMMT), one general-domain dataset (Multi30K), and one multi-domain dataset (WIT). Comprehensive evaluations demonstrate that the proposed appro
[87] Weiqiang Ma,Tonghui Yuan,Fei Meng ,等.Multiscale emergence of directional traveling waves in random neuronal networks with nonreciprocal excitation-inhibition synaptic coupling[J].Physical Review E,2026,113 (1):014304-014304,American Physical Society
摘要：Traveling waves (TWs) are a fundamental mechanism of large-scale spatiotemporal coordination in the cortex, yet how their directionality originates from microscale circuit properties remains an open question. To address this, we introduce a multiscale model that reveals a dual emergence process underlying cortical TW dynamics. We show that local nonreciprocal excitation-inhibition (E-I) coupling generically produces sustained collective oscillations. These oscillations serve as building blocks for macroscopic waves: when spatially coupled, they give rise to large-scale spatiotemporal patterns whose propagation direction is determined by emergent frequency gradients. Crucially, these frequency gradients—and therefore the wave propagation direction—can be controlled by intrinsic network properties (e.g., E-I coupling gradients) and extrinsic input. Our model reproduces the diversity of experimentally observed TW behaviors, including both fixed-direction and task-responsive propagation. Furthermore, the system exhibits robust wave formation even under fluctuating external input, mirroring biological reliability. By linking synaptic-level architecture to large-scale wave dynamics, our work establishes a mechanistic, multiscale foundation for the emergence and control of cortical TWs, with broader implications for neural computation and nonreciprocal wave-metamaterials.
[88] Wang, Rui,Chen, Si,Cai, Zhenxin ,等.Bridging Modulation Gaps: Similarity-Aware Domain-Invariant Learning for Robust Radio Frequency Fingerprint Identification[J].IEEE Internet of Things Journal,2026,13 (10):22183-22193,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Radio frequency fingerprint identification (RFFI) has emerged as a promising technique for enhancing wireless security by uniquely identifying individual devices through their inherent RF characteristics. However, the performance of conventional RFFI methods deteriorates significantly when training and testing involve different modulation schemes, primarily due to the resulting domain shift between modulation types. To address this challenge, this article proposes domain-invariant adaptive mixup enhancement (DIAME), a novel framework that integrates domain-invariant feature extraction with a similarity-aware adaptive mixup strategy to improve generalization across modulation domains. Specifically, DIAME dynamically adjusts the mixup intensity based on interfeature similarity and incorporates domain alignment and feature matching with pretrained models to promote modulation-invariant representation learning. Extensive experiments on a synthetic RF dataset comprising four modulation types and five devices demonstrate that DIAME achieves an average cross-modulation identification accuracy of 86.18%, significantly outperforming state-of-the-art methods. These results confirm the effectiveness of DIAME in mitigating domain shift and highlight its suitability for robust RFFI in heterogeneous wireless communication environments.
[89] Feng, Xuefeng,Xu, Zhaojie,Lu, Shuaishuai ,等.Multiscale coupling mechanisms of flow and phase-change dynamics mediated by geometric curvature in heat pipe condensers[J].AIChE Journal,2026,72 (2),WILEY
摘要：This study uses a validated 3D transient Volume of Fluid - Continuous Surface Force (VOF-CSF) model to elucidate curvature effects on phase-change dynamics in gravity-assisted heat pipes (GAHPs) condensers. Simulations of cone angles (15 degrees-85 degrees) reveal the condenser-side heat-transfer coefficient (HTC) has a non-monotonic relationship with curvature, peaking at 65 degrees: experimentally, HTC rises from 838 to 1370 W m(-2) K-1 (15 degrees-65 degrees, similar to 63.5% enhancement), while simulated HTC increases from 1025 to 1569 W m(-2) K-1 (similar to 53.1% gain). Optimal performance comes from curvature-induced turbulence with interfacial renewal;angles >65 degrees cause vapor entrapment and liquid-film thickening, increasing thermal resistance. Velocity fields transition from laminar to multiscale recirculation;temperature gradients shift from unidirectional to coupled. Experimental validation confirms model accuracy, with discrepancies from contact resistance and non-condensable gases. Based on the 65 degrees optimum, a modular GAHP heat exchanger is designed for medium-low temp waste-heat recovery, providing insights and design principles for heat-pipe systems.
[90] Chen Xu,Giao Vu,Ba Trung Cao ,等.Bridging simulation and experiment: A self-supervised domain adaptation framework for concrete damage classification[J].Advanced Engineering Informatics,2026,69, Part D ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Reliable assessment of concrete degradation is critical for ensuring the safety and longevity of engineering structures. This study proposes a self-supervised domain adaptation framework for robust concrete damage classification using coda wave signals. To support this framework, an advanced virtual testing platform is developed, which combines multiscale modeling of concrete degradation with ultrasonic wave propagation simulations. This setup enables the generation of large-scale labeled synthetic data under controlled conditions, reducing the dependency on costly and time-consuming experimental labeling. However, neural networks trained solely on simulated data often suffer from degraded performance when applied to experimental data due to domain shifts. To bridge this domain gap, the proposed framework integrates domain adversarial training, minimum class confusion loss, and the Bootstrap Your Own Latent (BYOL) strategy. These components work jointly to facilitate effective knowledge transfer from the labeled simulation domain to the unlabeled experimental domain, leading to accurate and reliable damage classification in concrete. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed method achieves notable performance gains, reaching an accuracy of 0.7762 and a macro F1 score of 0.7713, outperforming both the plain 1D CNN baseline (accuracy: 0.5867; macro F1: 0.5832) as well as six representative domain adaptation techniques. Moreover, the method exhibits high robustness across independent runs and adds only minimal training overhead (about two additional minutes). These findings underscore the practical potential of the proposed simulation-driven and label-efficient framework for real-world structural health monitoring applications.
[91] Yiheng Sun,Yongjian Li,Meng Chen ,等.IMC-ResNet: Atrial fibrillation detection method based on interlayer multiscale coupling[J].Biomedical Signal Processing and Control,2024,97 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Atrial fibrillation(AF) is one of the most common cardiac arrhythmias, and reliable detection of it is of significant importance. This study proposes a multilayer convolutional neural network for AF detection, which introduces the Multiscale Information Interaction module composed of a Detail Enhancer and a Context Information Extractor to achieve the extraction and coupling of multiscale information between layers. The Detail Enhancer is composed of multiscale transposed convolutions to encode waveform details in the electrocardiogram (ECG). The Context Information Extractor is composed of multiscale dilated convolutions to encode the morphological information of the ECG. Furthermore, the Multiscale Information Interaction module is used in conjunction with residual blocks to model the surface feature correlation and intrinsic abstract structure of AF signals. This approach extracts implicit information of AF from ECG signals, achieving high-precision and robust detection of AF. Five-fold cross-validation on the AFDB dataset resulted in an accuracy of 99.56% and an F1-score of 99.65%. Inter-patient testing on the clinical SPHDB database yielded an accuracy of 96.17% and an F1-score of 96.14%. In addition, this study conducted experiments to evaluate the model's robustness against noise, yielding favorable results across four types of noise tests. The results indicate that the proposed method has great potential for application in clinical auxiliary diagnosis based on wearable devices. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[92] Svensek, Daniel,Socan, Jaka,Praprotnik, Matej .Density-Nematic Coupling in Isotropic Solution of DNA: Multiscale Model[J].Macromolecular Rapid Communications,2024,45 (24),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：Monte Carlo simulations of isotropic solutions of double-stranded DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) are performed using the well-established oxDNA model. By comparing the fluctuation amplitudes with theoretical predictions, the parameters of a generic macroscopic model of an isotropic linear polymer solution/melt are determined. A multiscale continuum field model is thus obtained, corresponding to the full specificity of the isotropic phase of double-stranded DNA in the usual B-form as perceived at the macroscopic level. Present research is particularly focused on the coupling between spatial concentration/density variations of the polymer and the emerging nematic orientation order of the chains. This rather unfamiliar, only recently described phenomenon, inherent to linear polymers, is outlined and interpreted. Quantitative predictions are provided for the degree of nematic order induced by concentration gradients in isotropic solutions of double-stranded DNA. In linear polymer systems, orientational order of chains is coupled to their density gradients. Using the well-established oxDNA model, isotropic DNA (deoxiribonucleic acid) solution simulations were performed with varying chain lengths and concentrations, leading to a multiscale continuum model with full specificity of double-stranded DNA in isotropic phase. The density-nematic coupling strength and the orientational order induced in isotropic DNA solutions are focused. image
[93] Qi, H. B.,Zhang, L. J.,Wang, X. Y. ,等.The Study for the Enhancement of the Pressure Resistance of Defective Carbon Nanotubes Using Continuum-Discrete Multiscale Coupling Method[J].Mechanics of Solids,2024,59 (2):1138-1153,PLEIADES PUBLISHING LTD
摘要：The presence of defects, including Stone-Wales (SW) defects, can lead to a deterioration of the mechanical properties of carbon nanotubes (CNTs). In this study, a continuum-discrete multiscale coupling (CDMC) method is used to investigate the improvement of the pressure resistance of defective CNTs containing SW defects. By employing the moving least squares (MLS) approximation as a bridging mechanism, a seamless integration can be achieved between the deformation fields of discrete atomic configurations and their corresponding continuum models. Based on the CDMC method, a meshless computational framework, devoid of numerical integration, is formulated to accurately predict the buckling behaviors of defective CNTs. The results show that the position of SW defects almost has no effect on the anti-buckling ability of defective CNTs;and the pressure resistance of defective CNTs can be improved by coating/inserting CNT when the deference of the radius between the two nested CNTs is greater than 0.2nm.
[94] Yan Feng,Yingchun Ding,Li Liu ,等.Enhancing electrocatalytic activities of highentropy borides(HEBs)for C–N coupling in induced cation and pH-dependent microenvironments via multiscale modeling strategy[J].Inorganic Chemistry Frontiers,2025,12 (21):6706-6720,Royal Society of Chemistry
摘要：Currently,the renewable energy-driven carbon dioxide reduction reaction(CO_(2)RR)has been identified as a promising carbon neutralization option capable of generating a variety of high-value hydrocarbon ***,high-entropy borides(HEBs),which are similar to high-entropy carbides,have attracted extensive attention because of their outstanding chemical and physical properties,which allow them to be used as potential electrocatalysts,expanding the applications of high-entropy alloy *** is a new class of HEBs derived from Mo_(2)B_(2)MBenes via boro/carbothermal *** electrochemical reduction of nitrate(NO_(3))-integrated CO_(2)to organonitrogen compounds(acetamide and urea)via C-N coupling is attracting increasing *** paper outlines a development route and strategy in this area,emphasizing the importance of electrochemical NO_(3)-integrated CO_(2)RR for achieving a carbon-neutral society.C-N coupling proceeds by the interaction between ketene(^(*)CCO)***(NH3)or carbon monoxide(^(*)CO)***(NH_(2)OH)and the K^(+)cation in the acid ***^(*)CCO intermediate forms^(*)CC(OH)NH_(2)as a result of the nucleophilic attack by *** K^(+)cation and pH-dependent modulating reaction microenvironments play important roles in the design of high-performance catalysts for C-N bond coupling and C-C bond formation,which is critical for synthesizing valuable C-N chemicals from the CO_(2)RR-integrated NO_(3)reduction reaction(NtrRR).However,this route still faces many challenges in generating crucial intermediates during electrocatalytic C-N *** the first time,we propose a general modeling strategy for K^(+)-induced and pH-dependent microenvironment electroreduction of CO_(2)and NO_(3)to acetamide and urea,respectively,over HEB catalysts under neutral,acidic,and alkaline *** results identified^(*)CCO and^(*)NH_(2)OH as the key intermediates for acetamide and urea synthesis,respectively,und
[95] Mwaura, Jedidah,Araki, Shunsuke,Shamim, S.M. ,等.Lightweight Feature Bridging for On-Device Cross-Domain Intrusion Detection in IoT Environments[M].Digest of Technical Papers - IEEE International Conference on Consumer Electronics,2026,Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
摘要：In the advancing of AI-driven IoT security, reliable intrusion detection is essential as IoT devices face a growing variety of complex and evolving threats. Cross-domain datasets where training and testing data come from distinct feature spaces, distributions, or label sets pose significant challenges to traditional machine learning models, often leading to poor generalization and detection accuracy. In this study, we proposed a cross-domain feature bridging technique designed to work in IoT Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS). This technique adopts tiny autoencoder to map a shared latent space between domains. To evaluate the effectiveness of this approach, we conducted experiments on five diverse IoT datasets. The results show that our method reduces the domain gap while maintaining a compact model size, low inference times, and effective detection performance. © 2026 IEEE.
[96] Du, YanXia,Yang, XiaoFeng,Xiao, GuangMing ,等.Progress on prediction of multiscale coupling thermal effects of hypersonic vehicles[J].中国科学：技术科学,2024,54 (7):1288-1304,Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：With the demand for higher speeds and longer endurance of future near-space hypersonic vehicles, multiscale coupling thermal effects are becoming increasingly important, which can significantly affect hypersonic flight safety. Given the thermal phenomena involved in high-temperature surfaces and structures and cabin instruments/components of hypersonic vehicles, research progress on the prediction methods of multiscale coupling thermal effects was reviewed in this paper. Considering the design requirements of refinement and low redundancy of future vehicles, focused follow-up research was further proposed. The coupling thermal effects need to be extended from the presentative "macroscopic variables" to the intrinsic "hidden variables" affecting macroscopic performance. Cross-scale correlation must realize the coordination of "downscaling" and "upscaling". Meanwhile, basic mathematical models and adaptive methods must be developed to weaken or eliminate artificial boundaries and human experience. This work would provide a reference for the precise prediction and effective protection of aircraft thermal behaviors. © 2024 Chinese Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.
[97] Yehui Cui,Zhilang Zhang .A novel concurrent multiscale method based on the coupling of Direct FE 2 and CPFEM[J].Thin-Walled Structures,2025,206, Part A ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Performing concurrent simulations of macroscopic behaviors and microscopic structures using the crystal plasticity finite element method (CPFEM) presents a substantial difficulty with existing numerical techniques. To address this issue, a novel multi-scale method is proposed that couples CPFEM with a multiscale FEM, specifically Direct FE<sup>2</sup>. This facilitates the implementation of Direct CP-FE<sup>2</sup> in this work. The micro representative volume elements (RVEs) equipped with a crystal plasticity constitutive model and the macro mesh are integrated into a monolithic solution scheme within the Direct FE<sup>2</sup> framework. The proposed method integrates the multiscale simulation capability of Direct FE<sup>2</sup> with the crystal plasticity model of CPFEM. Alpha titanium (α-Ti), which exhibits two distinct plastic mechanisms of slip and twinning, is chosen as the subject of investigation for conducting numerical experiments. The accuracy and efficiency of the Direct CP-FE<sup>2</sup> model are evaluated through multiple plate tension and beam bending tests. The effective validation against the FEM model demonstrated the capability of Direct CP-FE<sup>2</sup> to forecast macroscopic deformation behaviors. Meanwhile, the Direct CP-FE<sup>2</sup> model can reveal the activation of slip/twinning systems and the evolution of crystal texture at a microscopic level. The influence of the grain orientation-dependent effect can be well considered into the macroscopic analysis with the help of Direct CP-FE<sup>2</sup>. Based on the testing examples, we demonstrate that the yield state of the macrostructure is enhanced when the crystal orientation is closer to the (0001) direction. Consequently, there exist very little crystal rotation behavior, hindering the evolution of the crystal texture.
[98] Xuefeng Zhang,Guichu Yue,Huaike Li ,等.Boosting Suzuki coupling reaction by multiscale porous Pd/carbon nanofibers photothermal catalyst[J].Carbon,2024,230 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Carbon-based photothermal catalysts represent a novel, energy-saving, and eco-friendly paradigm in catalysis. In this work, multiscale porous Pd/carbon nanofibers catalyst (Pd/MPCF) was synthesized by electrospinning, CO<sub>2</sub> thermal activating and atomic layer deposition (ALD) method. The multiscale pores of MPCF enable uniform Pd deposition on the carbon support, which showed better catalytic performance in Suzuki coupling reaction than commercial Pd/C catalyst through harnessing solar heat, resulting in a zero fossil energy consumption reaction process.
[99] Yar, Asfand,Idani, Akram,Ledru, Yves ,等.Bridging Formal Verification and Domain Validation in Railway Systems[M].RELIABILITY, SAFETY, AND SECURITY OF RAILWAY SYSTEMS. MODELLING, ANALYSIS, VERIFICATION, AND CERTIFICATION, RSSRAIL 2025,2026,16236 :91-107,SPRINGER INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING AG
摘要：Formal methods and domain-specific languages (DSLs) are now integral to the development and assurance of railway signalling systems in compliance with CENELEC EN 50128 and EN 50129. This article presents a survey and a comparison of research works and industrial initiatives that intertwine graphical DSLs with formal verification techniques. The comparison covers modelling syntax, operational semantics, adherence to industrial standards such as RailML, EULYNX and ERTMS/ETCS, and the extent to which each solution supports verification and validation. Special attention is devoted to initiatives that rely on the B Method and its associated toolchain, notably ProB, because these initiatives demonstrate how mathematically proven artefacts can be presented to, and interactively animated by, signalling engineers through user-friendly diagrams. The study highlights the added value of visual front-ends for bridging the communication gap between domain experts and formal-methods specialists while preserving traceability from informal requirements to verified systems.
[100] Khakpour, Niloufar,Kumar, Dabasish Saha,Tsoukias, Nikolaos .Multiscale modeling of electromechanical coupling and hemodynamics in the cerebral microcirculation: Role of capillary pericytes in blood flow regulation[J].Physiology,2025,40 ,AMER PHYSIOLOGICAL SOC
[101] Ditao Luo,Jonas Olof Sommar,Wanting Liu ,等.Wavelet Multiscale Analysis Reveals PM2.5and PM10Temporal Dynamics and Meteorological Coupling in Guiyang, a Representative Karst Highland City[J].ACS Omega,2025,10 (47):57641-57656,American Chemical Society
摘要：Background:Understanding the long-term, multiscale temporal dynamics of particulate matter (PM2.5and PM10) and its complex interactions with meteorological factors is critical for developing effective air pollution control strategies, particularly in cities with unique topographical characteristics. This study investigates the decadal evolution of PM pollution in Guiyang, a typical karst highland city, to unravel its underlying mechanisms and inform targeted mitigation ***:We analyzed continuous daily PM2.5and PM10concentration data from 2015 to 2024 in Guiyang, along with concurrent meteorological data (temperature, relative humidity, wind speed, precipitation, and air pressure). Multiscale wavelet analysis, employing Daubechies 6 and Morlet wavelets, was used to decompose the time series, identify dominant periodicities, and quantify the scale-dependent correlations between PM concentrations and meteorological ***:Over the last decade, Guiyang has achieved significant improvement in air quality, with the annual average concentrations of PM2.5and PM10decreasing by 51.05% and 49.60%, respectively, compared to 2015. The annual average PM2.5concentration exceeded the grade II of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (35 μg/m3) in 2015 and 2016. A stable “U”-shaped annual cycle (winter > spring > autumn > summer) was identified, which wavelet analysis further resolved into three distinct dynamic stages and attempt to analyze its dominant factors: a winter–spring fluctuation period (January–May) dominated by atmospheric inversions and anthropogenic emissions, a summer stabilization period (May–October) driven by clean air masses and enhanced wet deposition, and an autumn–winter accumulation period (October–January) triggered by regional biomass burning and stagnant weather. Extreme pollution events, such as the 2024 Chinese New Year, caused PM2.5and PM10to surge by over 130% on a single day. The PM–meteorology coupling exhibited strong scale
[102] Shi, Haiwei,Zhao, Changcai,Du, Bing ,等.Multiscale analysis of solid granules bulging of aluminum alloy four-way tube process via coupling FEM-DEM simulation[J].Scientific Reports,2025,15 (1):1015-1037,NATURE PORTFOLIO
摘要：This study introduces a novel solid granules bulging process for aluminum alloy four-way tubes, aiming to enhance forming precision and minimize defects in internal high-pressure forming. A three-dimensional finite element method-discrete element method coupling model (FEM-DEM coupling model), based on the uniform load distribution method, is developed to analyze the bulging process under three forming modes-free bulging, axial compression bulging, and composite bulging-to determine the optimal scheme. The model captures the influence of the solid granules medium (SGM) on material behavior at both mesoscopic and macroscopic scales. Three-dimensional contact distribution and normal contact force histograms illustrate force transmission changes within granules during bulging. Experimental validation shows a maximum deviation of 12.7% between simulated and measured wall thickness, confirming the accuracy of the model and consistency with deformation patterns.
[103] Yar, Asfand,Idani, Akram,Ledru, Yves ,等.Bridging Formal Verification and Domain Validation in Railway Systems[M].Lecture Notes in Computer Science,2026,16236 NCS :91-107,Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH
摘要：Formal methods and domain-specific languages (DSLs) are now integral to the development and assurance of railway signalling systems in compliance with CENELEC EN 50128 and EN 50129. This article presents a survey and a comparison of research works and industrial initiatives that intertwine graphical DSLs with formal verification techniques. The comparison covers modelling syntax, operational semantics, adherence to industrial standards such as RailML, EULYNX and ERTMS/ETCS, and the extent to which each solution supports verification and validation. Special attention is devoted to initiatives that rely on the B Method and its associated toolchain, notably ProB, because these initiatives demonstrate how mathematically proven artefacts can be presented to, and interactively animated by, signalling engineers through user-friendly diagrams. The study highlights the added value of visual front-ends for bridging the communication gap between domain experts and formal-methods specialists while preserving traceability from informal requirements to verified systems. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2026.
[104] Dong, Jue-Xian,Peng, Shuang-Yun,Cui, Bi-Ting ,等.Multiscale coupling characteristics and driving mechanisms of the production-living-ecological spaces in mountainous urban agglomerations[J].Journal of Natural Resources,2025,40 (11):3182-3200,Science Press
摘要：Rapid urbanization has intensified the conflicts among the production-living-ecological spaces (PLES), especially in mountainous urban agglomerations where complex terrain and ecological fragility lead to pronounced multi-scale spatial heterogeneity. Clarifying the coupling-coordination relationships and their driving mechanisms is essential for achieving refined territorial spatial governance. Taking the Central Yunnan Urban Agglomeration (CYUA) as a case study, this paper developed an integrated analytical framework combining multi-functional evaluation, coupling coordination degree modeling, and Geographical Convergent Cross Mapping (GCCM) to systematically examine the coupling characteristics and drivers across grid, township, and county scales. The results showed that PLES coordination had significant scale dependence, with the lowest coordination at the township scale due to concentrated heterogeneity, and the highest at the county scale driven by macro-level resource integration. As spatial scale increased, dominant driving factors shifted progressively from natural to socio-economic elements. At the grid level, factors such as NDVI and the proximity to cultivated land played key roles in promoting ecological stability and local coupling. At the township scale, road density and nighttime light indicated spatial accessibility and human activity intensity. At the county scale, per capita GDP, industrial agglomeration, and infrastructure development shaped spatial coordination through structural planning and institutional integration. Additionally, complex mountainous terrain moderated the transmission of spatial effects across scales, amplifying spatial fragmentation and functional isolation. Based on these findings, this study proposed a multiscale collaborative governance strategy of "grid monitoring-township regulation-county integration". These findings offer both theoretical insights and practical strategies for enhancing spatial coordination and promoting
[105] Kim, Hongbin,Yun, Soung Yong,Lee, Jaeguk ,等.Self-Consistent Numerical Framework for Multiscale Circuit–Plasma Coupling with Secondary Electron Emission[J].arXiv,2026,arXiv
摘要：Voltage breakdown in high-voltage pulsed vacuum systems arises from strongly nonlinear and multiscale interactions among external circuit dynamics, kinetic plasma evolution, and ion-induced secondary electron emission (SEE) at electrode surfaces. Although circuit–plasma co-simulation frameworks have been developed to couple lumped-element networks with particle-in-cell (PIC) plasma solvers, most existing approaches neglect energy-resolved SEE physics and its self-consistent feedback to both plasma and circuit, limiting predictive capability for breakdown initiation and transient surge dynamics. In this work, we present a self-consistent numerical framework for multiscale circuit–plasma coupling that explicitly incorporates ion-energy-dependent SEE into the electrode boundary formulation of an electrostatic PIC solver. The emitted electron flux is directly included in the surface charge update, resulting in a modified Poisson boundary condition that couples plasma fields and circuit response within a unified formulation. To address temporal multiscale effects, we derive two integration strategies: (i) a fully implicit strict coupling scheme that solves the plasma–circuit system monolithically at each time step, and (ii) a weak coupling scheme interpreted as a first-order operator-splitting approximation compatible with external SPICE-based circuit solvers, enabling a partitioned time-integration scheme with one-step lagged coupling between the circuit and plasma subsystems. The weak formulation enables generalized embedding of arbitrary lumped-element networks while maintaining quantitative agreement with the strict reference solution. The proposed framework is applied to voltage breakdown in a Tesla-transformer-driven vacuum capacitor with energetic ion injection. Simulation results show that ion-induced SEE fundamentally alters surface charge evolution, triggering rapid voltage collapse and sustaining the experimentally observed near-zero-voltage plateau, whereas S
[106] Li, Yue,Hou, Peng,Xing, Lei ,等.Multiscale Dissolution Simulation of Particles from a Tablet in Dissolution Apparatus by Coupling Discrete Element with Lattice Boltzmann Methods[J].Pharmaceutical Research,2026,SPRINGER/PLENUM PUBLISHERS
摘要：Purpose Dissolution kinetics of tablets is pivotal to therapeutic performance, quality assessment, and troubleshooting in manufacturing. We aimed to develop and validate a simulation framework to predict tablet dissolution kinetics under realistic hydrodynamic conditions, thereby supporting process development and quality control. Methods We modeled the dissolution of drug particles packed within a tablet by coupling the lattice Boltzmann method (LBM) for fluid flow and transport with the discrete element method (DEM) for particle mechanics in USP Apparatus II. The framework was first validated against experimental measurements of single-particle dissolution, then scaled to bulk-particle (tablet-level) simulations to assess model extensibility. Results The coupled LBM-DEM framework reproduced experimentally observed hydrodynamics and particle dynamics in a mechanically agitated dissolution device and scaled from single-particle to tablet-level simulations without sacrificing fidelity. Conclusions This physics-based framework enables the prediction of tablet dissolution under compendial hydrodynamic conditions and provides a foundation for incorporating additional particle-mechanical phenomena (e.g., swelling and break- age) to fully model tablet disintegration and dissolution.
[107] Xiaohang Zhou,Wangling Yu,Yuxin Liu ,等.Cross-domain structural damage identification based on updated FEM and WGAN-GP: Bridging the gap between FEM simulations and actual structural responses[J].Engineering Structures,2026,349 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Structural damage identification often faces challenges due to discrepancies between finite element model (FEM) simulations and actual structural responses. These domain discrepancies are inevitable and can significantly hinder the practical application of model-driven damage identification. To address these challenges, this paper proposes a two-stage cross-domain damage identification framework that integrates FEM updating with cross-domain deep learning. In the first stage, a set of FEMs with parameter variations is constructed, and a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) is employed to select the one that best approximates the real structure, serving as the updated FEM. In the second stage, a Wasserstein Generative Adversarial Network with Gradient Penalty (WGAN-GP) is utilized to generate synthetic responses from FEM simulations, aiming to align with the feature distribution of actual structural responses. This approach enables effective feature alignment and large-scale sample augmentation, thereby improving the robustness and accuracy of damage identification. Finally, a CNN is adopted to extract essential damage features from the synthetic responses and construct a mapping to the damage states, thereby achieving accurate cross-domain damage identification. The effectiveness of the proposed method is validated through the damage identification of a steel truss model. The results demonstrate a clear progression in damage identification performance: starting from 33.3 % accuracy with the baseline FEM, increasing to 46.2 % with updated FEM, then substantially improving to 82.4 % with WGAN, and ultimately reaching 96.2 % with WGAN-GP, which offers enhanced training stability and feature alignment capability.
[108] Shuren Fu,Shuai Luo,Xiao Hu ,等.Mechanistic insights into martensitic transformation and DSA coupling in medium-Mn steel: A multiscale experimental and modeling approach[J].Journal of Materials Research and Technology,2026,40 :234-250,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study provides a mechanistic framework to elucidate the interaction between deformation-induced martensitic transformation (DIMT) kinetics and dynamic strain aging (DSA) manifestations through elevated-temperature tensile testing with digital image correlation, multiscale microstructural characterization, and full-field crystal plasticity (CP) simulations. A pronounced temperature dependence is identified: both DIMT and DSA are simultaneously activated at intermediate temperatures and suppressed at higher temperatures, resulting in a distinct transition in macroscopic flow behavior. The <span class="math"><math><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">ε</mi></mrow></math></span> martensitic transformation, controlled by the motion of leading partial dislocations, accommodates strain without dislocation multiplication, thereby attenuating DSA. In contrast, <span class="math"><math><mrow is="true"><msup is="true"><mi is="true">α</mi><mo is="true">′</mo></msup></mrow></math></span> martensite exhibits a mechanically size-dependent role, <em>i.e.</em>, acting as a hard, non-deformable phase when submicron, but transitioning into a plastically active constituent when coarsened. CP simulations quantitatively capture this transition and determine a critical grain size threshold of ∼0.37 μm, beyond which dislocation transmission and strain accommodation occur within <span class="math"><math><mrow is="true"><msup is="true"><mi is="true">α</mi><mo is="true">′</mo></msup></mrow></math></span> martensite. Additionally, atom probe tomography reveals that DIMT induces carbon supersaturation and directional solute flux toward <span class="math"><math><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">γ</mi><mo is="true" linebreak="goodbreak" linebreakstyle="after">/</mo><msup is="true"><mi is="true">α</mi><mo is="true">′</mo></msup></mrow></math></span> interfaces. This transformation-induced redistribution accelerates solute-dislocation interactions and reactivates DSA, independent of Mn content. These fin
[109] 向烽瑞,贺亚男,巫英伟 ,等.弥散型板状燃料元件跨尺度耦合特性计算与分析[J].核动力工程,2024,45 (S2):93-101
摘要：弥散型板状燃料两相弥散材料的多尺度特点对其性能研究提出了挑战。为准确分析与评价U_(3)Si_(2)/Al弥散型板状燃料在堆内的性能,在已有的U_(3)Si_(2)/Al弥散型芯体的等效物性、行为模型基础上,针对等效芯体较为复杂的蠕变特性,建立其蠕变衰减系数模型以准确模拟两相复合材料的蠕变行为。同时,构建了三维燃料板模型、一维颗粒球模型,并提出了将三维燃料板模型与一维颗粒球模型耦合的跨尺度耦合方法,以在宏观分析的同时,获取燃料芯体各部位微观颗粒行为。基于跨尺度多物理场耦合分析工具,开展针对弥散型燃料的多物理场分析,并对燃料颗粒的尺寸与体积份额的影响进行了评估。结果显示,增加颗粒的尺寸和体积份额只略微提高燃料中心温度,影响可忽略;当体积份额从30%提升到40%时,燃料颗粒应力增加11.6%。
[110] Hongwei Wang,Liang Li,Xiuli Du .A multiscale thermo-mechanical coupling model for Fiber-Reinforced Cementitious Composite (FRCC)[J].Construction and Building Materials,2024,425 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper aims to develop a multiscale thermo-mechanical coupling model across from meso-scale to macro-scale to study the tensile thermos-mechanical behavior of fiber-reinforced cementitious composite (FRCC) on the base of thermodynamics. In meso-scale, the coupling process of thermal effect and the development law of a single crack were creatively presented and formulated in energy potential function. The effects of fiber dispersion on cracking behavior and crack strength of matrix were determined. In macro-scale, the multiple-fine-cracks and strain-hardening/softening behavior under tension were defined and studied. The bridging action stress of fibers is calculated by considering the bonding stress in the interface transition zone (ITZ). The model can be upgraded for FRCC materials ranges from strain-hardening cementitious composite (SHCC) and engineered cementitious composite (ECC). The numerical calculations of the proposed model were conducted based on the Fortran program for validation. The residual tensile strength, multiple-fine-cracks and strain-hardening/softening behaviors of FRCC were predicted. The behaviors of FRCC with different fiber types were accurately captured in a range of temperature from 20°C to 600°C through the comparative study with six groups test results in literatures. A sensibility study was carried out to analyze the impact of modelling parameters and thermal effect on the strain-hardening/softening behaviors of FRCC. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[111] Yang, Shiyan,Zhou, Qianhang,Sun, Lijuan ,等.Multiscale risks-bioaccessibility coupling framework for improving derivation of soil cadmium threshold (vol 207, 110036, 2026)[J].Environment International,2026,208 ,PERGAMON-ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD
[112] Zhengduo Zhao,Quangui Li,Peng Liu ,等.Synergistic mechanism of ultrasound-surfactant physicochemical coupling for multiscale coal wettability enhancement[J].Fuel,2025,400 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Improving coal wettability is critical for advancing water injection technologies that suppress coal mine gas and respirable dust hazards. This study developed an innovative ultrasonic-surfactant combinatorial treatment (USCT) and established a multimodal characterization platform integrating FTIR, nitrogen physisorption, and low-field NMR to elucidate its multiscale mechanisms of wettability enhancement. The results reveal that the SDBS surfactant treatment induces chemisorption of hydrophilic moieties (e.g., hydroxyl and oxygenated groups) through amphiphilic assembly, and the surfactant-mediated pore-throat blockage decreases the specific surface area and pore volume by 63.32 % and 37.90 %, respectively. Ultrasound-Surfactant physicochemical synergy triggers multiscale pore architecture evolution, the coal specific surface area increases by 58.45 % (from 2.8966 to 4.5897 m<sup>2</sup>/g) and pore volume expands by 12.50 % (from 0.0136 to 0.0153 cm<sup>3</sup>/g) through ultrasonic-induced pore structure redistribution. Notably, the content of hydrophilic moieties in coal exhibits negligible variation, demonstrating stable surface chemical characteristics during pore-structure remodeling. More importantly, the steady-state equivalent wetting pore diameter (<em>R<sub>g,48</sub></em>) decreases from 198.31 to 115.90 nm, indicating enhanced transformation of free water to adsorbed phases through confined hydration dynamics. This phenomenon stems from synergistic physicochemical modulation: the surfactant-derived chemical potential gradient reduces the capillary pressure threshold, while ultrasonic excitation restructures nanoscale bottleneck pores (2–50 nm) to overcome surfactant-induced flow “bridging-blockage”. The findings establish a novel coupled chemoacoustic activation mechanism for optimizing coal seam water injection, achieving simultaneous wettability enhancement and permeability recovery via multiscale fluid–solid interface engineering.
[113] Guo, Ning,Yu, Jiang,Zhou, Qingjun ,等.A multiscale crystal plasticity-multistage fatigue coupling framework for prediction of low-cycle fatigue life in laser additively manufactured titanium alloy[J].Virtual and Physical Prototyping,2025,20 (1),TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：Existing aerospace fatigue life models inadequately predict high-strain cycle failures in TC11 titanium alloys due to overlooked dynamic microstructural evolution and multiscale damage, undermining critical airframe safety assessments. This study introduces a novel multiscale framework that synergistically integrates microstructure-sensitive crystal plasticity (CP) with a multistage fatigue (MSF) model to accurately predict the low-cycle fatigue (LCF) life of TC11 alloy fabricated via laser powder-directed energy deposition (LP-DED). The CP-MSF model synergistically integrates microstructure deformation mechanisms and heterogeneous plasticity-induced damage evolution from CP analysis with MSF's multiscale variable transmission framework, establishing a holistic framework that quantitatively captures dynamic microstructure evolution, crack nucleation-propagation transitions, and scale-dependent damage interactions. The validity of the proposed framework was tested against strain-life curves, demonstrating a mean prediction error about 4.6% across a range of strain amplitudes (0.4%-1.2%). This study further elucidates the individual contributions of microstructure morphology, alpha lath size and micro-orientation to LCF lifetime. Notably, the presence of basketweave microstructure and coarse alpha laths significantly enhances LCF life, whereas the micro-orientation has less effect. Additionally, Schmid factor (SF) analyses and intragranular misorientation axes (IGMA) investigations identified Pyramidal I slip as the predominant deformation mechanism under cyclic loading.
[114] Zeqi Wang,Wei Tao,Zhuang Zhang ,等.Towards bridging the synthetic-to-real gap in quantitative photoacoustic tomography via unsupervised domain adaptation[J].Photoacoustics,2025,45 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The difficulty of obtaining absorption coefficient annotations hinders the practical application of deep learning in quantitative photoacoustic tomography. While training on synthetic data is easy to implement, the synthetic-to-real domain gap poses a significant challenge to model generalization. To address this, we propose a Decoder-enhanced unsupervised Domain Adaptation (DDA) framework to enable knowledge transfer from synthetic data to an unlabeled target domain. Experimental results show that DDA significantly improves estimation performance on target images and surpasses competing methods in quantitative evaluation and visual comparison. Additionally, we investigate the effect of cross-domain label distribution similarity on domain adaptation and recommend an effective approach for data synthesis. To mitigate the effect of absorption property mismatch, we propose fine-tuning the affine parameters of normalization layers, which significantly improves estimation accuracy using labeled multi-wavelength photoacoustic images from as few as two target samples.
[115] Chen, Jianwei,Miao, Zhengyang,Cai, Wenjie ,等.Hierarchical Multiscale Structure-Function Coupling for Brain Connectome Integration[J].arXiv,2026,arXiv
摘要：Integrating structural and functional connectomes remains challenging because their relationship is non-linear and organized over nested modular hierarchies. We propose a hierarchical multiscale structure–function coupling framework for connectome integration that jointly learns individualized modular organization and hierarchical coupling across structural connectivity (SC) and functional connectivity (FC). The framework includes: (i) Prototype-based Modular Pooling (PMPool), which learns modality-specific multiscale communities by selecting prototypical ROIs and optimizing a differentiable modularity-inspired objective;(ii) an Attention-based Hierarchical Coupling Module (AHCM) that models both within-hierarchy and cross-hierarchy SC–FC interactions to produce enriched hierarchical coupling representations;and (iii) a Coupling-guided Clustering loss (CgC-Loss) that regularizes SC and FC community assignments with coupling signals, allowing cross-modal interactions to shape community alignment across hierarchies. We evaluate the model’s performance across four cohorts for predicting brain age, cognitive score, and disease classification. Our model consistently outperforms baselines and other state-of-the-art approaches across three tasks. Ablation and sensitivity analyses verify the contributions of key components. Finally, the visualizations of learned coupling reveal interpretable differences, suggesting that the framework captures biologically meaningful structure–function relationships. The code is available at github. Copyright © 2026, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[116] WANG Fei,LI Li,WANG XueLin ,等.Coupling stiffening effect of carbon nanotubes on modulus of nanograined metals:Mechanism and multiscale modeling[J].Science China(Technological Sciences),2024,67 (11):3513-3523,Science China Press
摘要：A quantitative relationship between grain size and Young's modulus of metal composites has not been established by considering the coupling effect of the reinforcements on microstructural *** objective of this study is to investigate the mechanism of deformation coordination between the carbon nanotube and the composite microstructure using molecular dynamics *** the analysis of stress contributions from grain boundaries and grains,a grain size-dependent continuum model for the pure metal modulus is *** this basis,a predictive model for the modulus of metallic composites is developed by considering the coupling deformation between carbon nanotubes and the *** proposed model is capable of accurately capturing the relationship between grain size and the modulus of metal *** study provides a guideline for microstructure-dependent multiscale modeling.
[117] Jiaxiang Xue,Shihuai Wang,Zhaoke Chen ,等.A multiscale model for the thermomechanical behavior of SiC composite cladding subjected to thermo-mechanical irradiation coupling[J].Journal of Nuclear Materials,2025,615 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Silicon carbide (SiC) composite cladding serves as the primary safety barrier against nuclear leakage in advanced nuclear reactors, playing a critical role in accident-tolerant fuel. However, its structural integrity under coupled thermo-mechanical-irradiation conditions remains a significant challenge, one that is not yet fully understood. This study establishes a hierarchical multiscale framework to investigate the synergistic damage mechanisms that govern SiC composite claddings subjected to extreme temperature gradients, neutron irradiation, and mechanical loads. At the mesoscale, a non-orthogonal, curved representative volume element (RVE) with explicit fiber tows-matrix-interphase architecture is developed using a novel coordinate mapping strategy. This approach effectively resolves the geometric complexities inherent in tubular woven composites while maintaining topological consistency. At the macroscale, a thermodynamically consistent continuum damage mechanics model is formulated, incorporating irradiation-induced swelling, anisotropic creep, and thermal strain interactions through nonlinear constitutive relations. The framework uniquely integrates micromechanical interactions (such as matrix cracking and interfacial debonding) with radiation physics, where defect-driven thermal resistivity degradation and stiffness reduction are dynamically coupled through homogenized material properties derived from RVE asymptotics. The results indicate that the proposed framework provides a comprehensive description of the microscopic damage mechanisms in SiC composite cladding, and can be used for future hierarchical multiscale analyses of SiC composite cladding systems.
[118] Fatima, Zainab,Zardari, Shehnila,Tanveer, Muhammad Hassan .Bridging domain gaps in agricultural 3D point cloud classification using adversarial domain adaptation[J].Scientific Reports,2025,15 (1):1-16,NATURE PORTFOLIO
摘要：Domain adaptation in agricultural settings has traditionally focused on 2D imagery, leaving a significant gap in the robust application of 3D sensing technologies for plant monitoring and classification. In this paper, we propose an adversarial unsupervised domain adaptation framework for 3D point cloud classification in agriculture, addressing the domain shift between controlled (Crops3D) and real-world (Pheno4D) datasets. Our approach leverages a PointNet-based feature extractor, a domain discriminator trained with a Gradient Reversal Layer (GRL), and an entropy minimization objective to ensure confident predictions on the unlabeled target domain. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method achieves a classification accuracy of 97% on the target domain, with strong per-class F1 scores, despite significant sensor and environmental differences between datasets. We also evaluate model performance in real-time scenarios and discuss deployment feasibility on edge devices. This work highlights the potential of 3D domain adaptation in precision agriculture and paves the way for more generalizable plant phenotyping models.
[119] Ruijie Han,Pengfei Zhao,Jingyi Zhang ,等.Multiscale coupling between structure, wettability and energy dissipation in biomimetic micro/nanostructured superhydrophobic silicone elastomer interfaces[J].Applied Surface Science,2026,731 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Superhydrophobic surfaces demonstrate extensive application potential in areas such as self-cleaning, anti-fouling, and droplet manipulation. However, constructing superhydrophobic surfaces that simultaneously exhibit high adhesion and strain tunability in a single material remains an active focus of current research. The interplay among surface structure, energy dissipation, and wetting-adhesion coupling is crucial for designing multifunctional flexible interfaces. Here, a biomimetic complementary micro/nanostructured silicone elastomer interface is fabricated by transfer printing, endowing it with superhydrophobicity and high adhesion. The surface exhibits a static contact angle of 155.2° and a contact angle hysteresis of 42.5°. The droplet remains stably adhered to even under inverted orientation, demonstrating the characteristic superhydrophobic and high adhesion state. The energy dissipation behavior during droplet impact is quantitatively analyzed and correlated with the deviation from the classical energy conservation model. The deviation unveils a velocity-dependent dissipation-coupling mechanism governed by the coupling between the complementary micro/nanostructures and the compliant matrix. Morphological analysis and strain-regulated wetting tests show that pre-strained surface reaches a contact angle of 156.8° at 75% strain, revealing a force-induced tunable interfacial energy regulation mechanism. Molecular dynamics simulations reveal a 32.9% reduction in water diffusivity and an increase in interfacial interaction energy to ∼ 350 kcal·mol⁻<sup>1</sup>, elucidating the molecular origin of droplet locking. This work clarifies the mechanistic coupling among hierarchical structure, energy dissipation, and wetting adhesion, offering new insights for the rational design of tunable superhydrophobic and adhesive interfaces.
[120] Ruqing Fang,Zhe Li .A multiscale electrochemo-mechanical model of porous electrode in lithium-ion batteries: The coupling of reaction and finite deformation[J].Electrochimica Acta,2024,475 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, we present a novel multiscale electrochemo-mechanical model for porous electrodes in lithium-ion batteries (LIBs). Building upon the theory of finite deformation and the pseudo-two-dimensional framework introduced by Doyle et al. (Journal of the Electrochemical Society, 140, 6(1993)), our model incorporates the interaction between particle deformation and multiscale electrochemical processes, which has been lacking in previous research. The model is validated by the rate performance tests on SiO-based electrodes. By utilizing the model, we analyze the coupling effects among reaction distribution, porosity variation, and local geometrical distortion of the electrode at high current rates. We also investigate the relative importance of different electrochemo-mechanical coupling paths for materials with large volume expansion ratios. Comparing the comprehensive model with simplified versions, we find that diffusion stress is a priority due to its significant impact on ionic diffusion within particles. Porosity variation becomes equally significant at high current rates, as ionic transport in the electrolyte becomes the rate-limiting step. This work contributes to enhance understanding of the interplay between electrochemical and mechanical phenomena in LIB electrodes, especially for silicon-based materials. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[121] Zhu, Chao,Chen, Jie,Luo, Zhonghao ,等.Quantification of 3D Fracture Network Characterization and the Coupling Mechanisms in Non-blasting SC-CO2 Fracturing: A Bayesian Calibrated Multiscale Complex Fracture Index[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2026,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：Quantitatively separating the coupled expansion-seepage contribution within non-blasting SC-CO2 fracturing mechanisms is essential for advancing CCUS-enabled rock-breaking technology. In this paper, SC-CO2 fracturing tests were conducted on granite under different injection rates (5, 10, 15, 20, and 25 ml/min), drilling depths (5, 10, and 15 mm), and fluids (SC-CO2 vs. H2O) conditions. Then, the multiple descriptors, including the difference of 3D and 2D fractal dimension (Delta D), skeleton connectivity ratio (R-m), surface roughness (S-q), directional anisotropy (I-ani), and peak break pressure (PBP), were used to quantitatively characterize the reconstructed 3D fracture network and loading response. Moreover, a multiscale complex fracture index (MCFI) was formulated to integrate Delta D and R-m as backbone measures of the fracture network and to incorporate seepage-related roughness (S-q) and expansion-related directionality (I-ani) through two weighting coefficients (alpha, beta). The coefficients were inferred using a Bayesian inversion framework coupled with a logarithmic MCFI-PBP mapping, enabling probabilistic calibration and mechanistic decoupling of seepage- and expansion-dominated contributions. The results showed the MCFI-PBP mapping with high fidelity (R-2 = 0.91, RMSE = 0.56 MPa) and narrow 95% credible intervals (+/- 0.30-0.50 MPa), outperforming single-descriptor models. Posterior estimates yielded alpha = 2.49 and beta = 2.60 indicate a near-balanced contribution of seepage- and expansion-related effects within the SC-CO2 fracturing granite tests, while the inferred Log-elasticities coefficient suggest that expansion-driven processes act as the primary trigger that enables subsequent seepage effect development. Within the present experimental design, an MCFI value exceeding 5.50e-3 is associated with the most developed fracture network response observed at a drilling depth of 10 mm and an injection rate of 20 ml/min. This study proposes a novel Baye
[122] Yao-jia Han,Yi-pin Sun,Cheng-wei Fei .CDM–Bayesian framework for multiscale fatigue life prediction of aircraft mechanisms with rigid–Flexible coupling[J].Aerospace Science and Technology,2026,174 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Fatigue failure of aircraft mechanisms under complex multiaxial loading is a central challenge to structural safety. Conventional life prediction methods struggle to characterize nonlinear damage evolution, and material-level parameters are difficult to transfer to structural-scale applications. This study proposes a multiaxial fatigue life prediction method that integrates CDM and Bayesian inference, incorporating rigid–flexible coupling simulation to enable consistent cross-scale assessment from material to structure. A state-dependent continuum damage mechanics (CDM) model is developed within a two-scale framework coupling macroscopic elasticity and microscopic plasticity. Damage evolution is governed by stress triaxiality (<em>η</em>) and the normalized third invariant (<em>ξ</em>). Model parameters, calibrated via particle swarm optimization using 7050-T7451 multiaxial fatigue data, yield a 92.7 % hit rate within a factor-of-four error band. Bayesian posterior inference then quantifies parameter and model uncertainties, providing 95 % credible intervals for fatigue life prediction for use in reliability assessment. External validation on MIL-HDBK-5H (L/LT) shows twofold coverage of 90 % and 100 %. A test-validated rigid–flexible-coupled model provides multiaxial stress histories at critical locations. Material parameters are transferred across scales to hot spots in the cargo-door mechanism, yielding a deterministic life of 1.448 × 10⁵ cycles and a 95 % reliability life of 7.319 × 10⁴ cycles. Compared with the traditional S–N/Miner method, the Findley criterion, and the Brown–Miller method, the state-dependent CDM maintains comparable life magnitudes while capturing stress-state effects and damage-driving mechanisms. The approach enables integrated analysis across constitutive and material–structure scales, forming a closed loop from parameter calibration to engineering application. It provides a new pathway for fatigue evaluation and maintenance decision-makin
[123] Bo, W.,Xuping, J.,Yaqian, Y. ,等.SegAdapt: Bridging Domain Gaps in Pre-Trained Models via Structured Injection and Mask Optimization[J].IEEE Access,2025,13 :173510-173519,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：While generative large language models exhibit robust capabilities in multi-task scenarios, they struggle with fine-grained semantic understanding tasks, particularly for languages lacking explicit word segmentation markers and in low-resource domain settings. This study proposes the SegAdapt framework, which enables lightweight domain adaptation for pre-trained models through progressive structured injection and dynamic mask optimization. During continual pre-training, the framework integrates domain-specific word boundaries as implicit structural signals, reconstructing the semantic distribution of pre-trained models using only 1/100 000 th of high-quality domain-specific data. Experimental results demonstrate that SegAdapt achieves an average F1-score improvement of 1.52% on social media and emergency entity recognition tasks when applied to general pre-trained models. Furthermore, it significantly outperforms full-parameter fine-tuning in training efficiency, offering a resource-efficient solution for domain-specific semantic adaptation.
[124] Zhou, Qi,Chen, Xi,Fang, Chuyu ,等.Enhancing Dual-Target Cross-Domain Recommendation via Similar User Bridging[M],2025,ASSOC COMPUTING MACHINERY
摘要：Dual-target cross-domain recommendation aims to mitigate data sparsity and enables mutual enhancement via bidirectional knowledge transfer. Most existing methods rely on overlapping users to build cross-domain connections. However, in many real-world scenarios, overlapping data is extremely limited-or even entirely absent-significantly diminishing the effectiveness of these methods. To address this challenge, we propose SUBCDR, a novel framework that leverages large language models (LLMs) to bridge similar users across domains, thereby enhancing dual-target cross-domain recommendation. Specifically, we introduce a Multi-Interests-Aware Prompt Learning mechanism that enables LLMs to generate comprehensive user profiles, disentangling domain-invariant interest points while capturing fine-grained preferences. Then, we construct intra-domain bipartite graphs from user-item interactions and an inter-domain heterogeneous graph that links similar users across domains. Subsequently, to facilitate effective knowledge transfer, we employ Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) for intra-domain relationship modeling and design an Inter-domain Hierarchical Attention Network (InterHAN) to facilitate inter-domain knowledge transfer through similar users, learning both shared and specific user representations. Extensive experiments on seven public datasets demonstrate that SUBCDR outperforms state-of-the-art cross-domain recommendation algorithms and single-domain recommendation methods. Our code is publicly available at https://***/97z/***.
[125] HE YaoLong,XU Peng,JIANG DengFeng ,等.Quantifying the solid electrolyte interphase stress induced capacity fading of lithium-ion batteries via a multiscale mechanicalelectrochemical coupling model[J].Science China(Technological Sciences),2024,67 (10):3168-3181,Science China Press
摘要：The solid electrolyte interphase(SEI)is widely recognized as a critical factor leading to the capacity fading of lithium-ion batteries(LIBs).Although SEI stress-related mechanical failure caused by the expansion or contraction of active materials upon cycles is well documented,previously reported SEI components and overpotential varying phenomena due to SEI stress and their effects on the electrochemical performance are poorly ***,we establish a quantitative correlation between capacity fading and the SEI stress by considering its effects on side reactions,especially SEI component evolution,in a multiscale mechanical-electrochemical coupling ***,the capacity fading behaviors of two typical cells(Li[NiMnCo]O_(2) as the cathode,and graphite and silicon as the anode,respectively)were adopted as numerical examples to demonstrate its potential utility and *** within the SEI was indeed found to play a predominant role in the capacity fading of the graphite and silicon anodes,resulting in 27%and 69%of the total capacity loss after 200 and 100 cycles at 1 C,*** study provides valuable mechanical insights into the variations of SEI properties related to the capacity degradation and SEI optimization and design for LIBs.
[126] Xuechen Zhao,Yuying Liu,Yanyi Huang ,等.Unified Generative Intent Discovery: Bridging in-domain classification and open-world intent generation[J].Information Processing & Management,2026,63 (7),Elsevier Science
摘要：Open-world intent discovery is critical for task-oriented dialogue systems, where static intent taxonomies fail to capture emerging user intentions and existing methods show limited generalization beyond predefined label spaces. To address this issue, we propose Unified Generative Intent Discovery (UGID), a unified framework that reformulates intent understanding as a conditional text generation task, enabling both in-domain (IND) intent classification and out-of-domain (OOD) intent discovery within a single architecture. UGID adopts a two-stage training strategy. First, instruction-tuned supervised fine-tuning strengthens semantic discrimination among known intents. Second, a self-play reinforcement learning mechanism simulates iterative user–system interactions to explore, refine, and validate novel intent labels. In addition, a reward design combining semantic fidelity and domain relevance guides the generation process toward coherent and meaningful intent discovery. Experiments on three benchmark datasets demonstrate that UGID consistently achieves strong performance, reaching ACC scores of 79.63%, 82.70% and 87.50% on BANKING, StackOverflow and CLINC, respectively. Compared with the strongest generative baseline, IntentGPT-4, UGID further improves ACC by 14.87 and 4.21 percentage points on BANKING and CLINC, respectively. Ablation studies further verify the effectiveness of the proposed design. Overall, UGID provides an effective and scalable framework for intent understanding in dynamic open-world dialogue scenarios.
[127] Hu, Ding,Zhu, Guo-Rui,Duan, Ping-Hui ,等.Competitive Anion Anchoring and Hydrogen Bonding in Multiscale-Coupling Composite Quasi-Solid Electrolytes for Fire-Safety and Long-Life Lithium Metal Batteries[J].Advanced Science,2025,12 (19),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：Composite solid-state electrolytes (CSEs) using Li1+xAlxTi2-x(PO4)(3 )(LATP) as active fillers offer promising prospects for large-scale lithium metal batteries (LMBs) applications due to their high environmental stability, cost-effectiveness, and improved safety. However, the challenges persist owing to high interfacial resistance with electrodes and instability with lithium metal. Herein, self-assembly nanofiber/polymers/LATP composite quasi-solid electrolytes (SL-CQSEs) are reported through in situ polymerization of precursor solution containing vinylene carbonate (VC), fluoroethylene carbonate (FEC), lithium bis(trifluoromethanesulfonic) imide (LiTFSI) in a porous and flexible self-supporting skeleton (SSK) consisting of 2-(3-(6-methyl-4-oxo-1,4-dihydropyrimidin-2-yl)ureido)ethyl methacrylate (UPyMA)'s self-assembly nanofiber (SAF), poly(vinylidene fluoride-co-hexafluoropropylene) (PVDF-HFP) and LATP. Anion-anchoring/hydrogen-bonding competition and intercomponent multiscale-coupling effects on SL-CQSEs are found, which contribute to their incombustibility, excellent room-temperature ionic conductivity (1.03 mS cm(-1)), wide electrochemical window (5.1 V), good interfacial compatibility, and lasting inhibition of lithium dendrites. LiFePO4/Li cells with SL-CQSEs not only exhibit high-rate performance and long-term cycling stability, with a capacity retention of 90.4% at 1C and 87% even at 4C after 1000 cycles, but also can resist fire and mechanical abuse, highlighting the potential applications of SL-CQSEs for high-performance and safety LMBs.
[128] Peng, Mingzhi,Xu, Yao,Hu, Yongbo ,等.Multiscale electromagnetic-thermal-fluid field coupling model for oil-immersed transformers[J].Frontiers in Mechanical Engineering,2025,11 ,FRONTIERS MEDIA SA
摘要：Accurate predictions of the hotspot temperatures within large oil-immersed transformers are critical to their operational safety and longevity. The present work explores a novel multiscale electromagnetic-thermal-fluid indirect coupling model to address this challenge. The novelty of the model lies in its comprehensive integration of a detailed disc-type winding structure with the complete radiator-cooling circuit to overcome the common simplifications applied in existing studies. The proposed methodology involves a sequential process, where a 3D electromagnetic field simulation is first performed to determine the loss distribution precisely;here, the total eddy current loss of the winding accounts for 3.68% of the total winding loss and shows a U-shaped distribution in the winding disc height direction. These losses are then imported as heat sources into a full-scale thermal-fluid model. The key findings of the model are that the eddy current losses of the winding account for a significant portion of the total loss and that their distribution critically influences the temperature field;further, the presence of oil washers creates localized temperature differences of up to 5.3 K. The model accuracy is strongly validated through a transformer temperature rise test using embedded optical-fiber sensors, and the results show a maximum deviation of only 3.1 K. Hence, the present study provides a high-fidelity simulation framework for transformer thermal management and design optimization.
[129] Abid Ali Khan Danish,Snehamoy Chatterjee .Bridging the safety-specific language model gap: Domain-adaptive pretraining of transformer-based models across several industrial sectors for occupational safety applications[J].Expert Systems with Applications,2026,299, Part B ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Occupational safety remains a persistent global challenge despite advancements in regulatory frameworks and safety technologies. Unstructured incident narratives, such as accident reports and safety logs, offer valuable context for understanding workplace hazards but are underutilized due to the gap in the safety-specific language models. This study addresses that gap by adapting pretrained transformer-based models (BERT and ALBERT) to the occupational safety domain through Domain-Adaptive Pretraining (DAPT). We construct a large-scale, multi-source corpus comprising over 2.4 million documents spanning several industrial sectors, including mining, construction, transportation, and chemical processing, augmented with safety-related academic abstracts to preserve general linguistic understanding and mitigate catastrophic forgetting. Using this corpus, we develop two domain-adapted models, safetyBERT and safetyALBERT, through continual pretraining on the masked language modeling objective. Intrinsic evaluation using pseudo-perplexity (PPPL) demonstrates substantial improvements, with safetyBERT and safetyALBERT achieving 76.9% and 90.3% reductions in PPPL, respectively, over their general-domain counterparts. Extrinsic evaluation on the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) injury dataset across three classification tasks (accident type, mining equipment, and degree of injury) demonstrated consistent performance improvements, with both models outperforming diverse baseline models including general-purpose models (BERT, ALBERT, DistilBERT, RoBERTa), domain-specific scientific model (SciBERT), and large language model (Llama 3.1-8B), with safetyALBERT achieving competitive results despite its parameter-efficient design.. To further assess generalization in low-resource settings, these models were evaluated on the small-scale Alaska insurance claim dataset from mining industry across two classification tasks − claim type and injured body part. Both safetyBERT and s
[130] Liangliang Yuan,Mingxing Guo,Yi Wang ,等.Synergistic effect of gradient Zn content and multiscale particles on the mechanical properties of Al-Zn-Mg-Cu alloys with coupling distribution of coarse-fine grains[J].International Journal of Minerals,Metallurgy and Materials,2024,31 (6):1392-1405,Higher Education Press
摘要：This study investigated the influence of graded Zn content on the evolution of precipitated and iron-rich phases and grain struc-ture of the alloys,designed and developed the Al–8.0Zn–1.5Mg–1.5Cu–0.2Fe(wt%)alloy with high strength and *** the increase of Zn content,forming the coupling distribution of multiscale precipitates and iron-rich phases with a reasonable matching ratio and dispersion distribution characteristics is *** phenomenon induces the formation of cell-like structures with alternate distribu-tion of coarse and fine grains,and the average plasticity–strain ratio(characterizing the formability)of the pre-aged alloy with a high strength is up to *** reveal the evolution and influence mechanisms of multiscale second-phase particles and the corresponding high formability mechanism of the *** developed coupling control process exhibits considerable potential,revealing remarkable improvements in the room temperature formability of high-strength Al–Zn–Mg–Cu alloys.
[131] Yong ZHOU,Jiawei JIANG,Bo DU ,等.Domain-aware behavior cloning for bridging the sim-to-real gap of legged robots[J].SCIENCE CHINA Information Sciences,2026,69 (2):519-520,Science China Press
摘要：Locomotion controllers play a critical role in enabling robots to perform complex behaviors in dynamic environments. Recent advances in reinforcement learning have demonstrated significant potential for developing more efficient and effective robotic controllers. Peng et al. [1] proposed a paradigm to train a locomotion policy in simulation and then transfer it to the real world. Environmental and dynamic factors, which can also be summarized as domain factors, have been taken into consideration to train more robust policies [2–5]. These methods can result in a robust policy that can adjust the gait to adapt to perturbations in the simulation that may also occur in the real world, such as random push,adding mass, and slippery or rocky terrains. However, these methods rely on the choice of the range of the domain factors. If the chosen range does not cover the real-world scenario, the policy will not be effective.
[132] Timothy S. Carpenter,Fikret Aydin,Chris Neale ,等.Dynamics and lipid membrane coupling of the RAS-RAF complex revealed via multiscale simulations[J].Biophysical Journal,2026,125 (2):485-501,Elsevier Science
摘要：To gain molecular and mechanistic insights into initiation of the RAS-RAF signaling cascade, we developed and used a combination of multiscale simulation and experimental approaches. The influence and impact of the membrane on RAS and RAF proteins is a factor we are just beginning to understand and appreciate in more detail. Molecular simulation is an ideal methodology to further study this complicated relationship between the membrane and associated proteins. Our previous work using Multiscale Machine-learned Modeling Infrastructure investigated different lipid compositions solely around the KRAS4b protein and the interplay between protein behavior and these membrane environments. Multiscale Machine-learned Modeling Infrastructure uses machine learning to couple adjacent simulation scales and has been efficiently scaled across some of the world’s largest high-performance computers. Recently, we have expanded this multiresolution framework to include the all-atom simulation scale and to incorporate the RAF RBDCRD domains. Here, we present the overall analysis results from this new simulation campaign comprising a mixture of RAS and RAF RBDCRD proteins. Approximately 35,000 coarse-grained and 10,000 all-atom molecular dynamics simulations were completed, sampled from a variety of protein/lipid composition configurations that were generated from a micron-scale continuum simulation containing hundreds of copies of the proteins.
[133] Dong, Hao,Yang, Zongze,Nie, Yufeng .HIGHER-ORDER MULTISCALE METHOD AND ITS CONVERGENCE ANALYSIS FOR NONLINEAR THERMO-ELECTRIC COUPLING PROBLEMS OF COMPOSITE STRUCTURES[J].arXiv,2025,arXiv
摘要：This paper proposes a higher-order multiscale computational method for nonlinear thermo-electric coupling problems of composite structures, which possess temperature-dependent material properties and nonlinear Joule heating. The innovative contributions of this work are the novel multiscale formulation with the higher-order correction terms for periodic composite structures and the global error estimation with an explicit rate for higher-order multiscale solutions. By employing the multiscale asymptotic approach and the Taylor series technique, the higher-order multiscale method is established for time-dependent nonlinear thermo-electric coupling problems, which can keep the local balance of heat flux and electric charge for high-accuracy multiscale simulation. Furthermore, an efficient numerical algorithm with off-line and on-line stages is presented in detail, and corresponding convergent analysis is also obtained. Two- and three-dimensional numerical experiments are conducted to showcase the competitive advantages of the proposed method for simulating the time-dependent nonlinear thermo-electric coupling problems in composite structures, not only exceptional numerical accuracy, but also less computational *** Codes 35B27, 80M40, 65M60, 65M15 Copyright © 2025, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[134] Fengxuan Wu,Yuming Zhao,Zhidong Hou ,等.Lignocellulosic oxidation bridging to modulate pseudographitic domain of hard carbon toward boosted sodium storage[J].Journal of Energy Storage,2025,130 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Lignocellulosic biomass-derived hard carbons (HCs) have drawn significant industrial focus as the notably promising anode candidates for Na-ion batteries. However, it poses an arduous hurdle to optimize the carbon microstructure toward advanced sodium energy. Herein, we propose a lignocellulosic oxidation bridging approach to modulate the pseudographitic microstructure for HCs toward high performance anode materials. Oxygen-containing functional groups are introduced to sterically bridge the aromatic compound fragments and unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbons of biomass, thereby inhibiting ordered rearrangements of carbon interlayers during pyrolysis. The as-optimized HCs feature a desirable short-range pseudographitic domain with expanded carbon interlayer spacings. The favorable microstructure enables HCs to display an enhanced capacity of 309 mAh g<sup>−1</sup> accompanied by a commendable initial Coulombic efficiency of 82.7 % and a durable longevity of over 1800 cycles. Charge storage mechanism and practical feasibility of HCs are systematically explored by <em>in situ</em> Raman test and full cells. This work puts forward a tractable strategy to facilitate the progress of advanced biomass-derived HCs for Na-ion batteries.
[135] Saboia, Priscila,Sweet, James,Sweet, Christopher .OpenBridge: Bridging Domain Scientists and APIs through AI-Powered Interfaces[M],2025,ASSOC COMPUTING MACHINERY
摘要：We propose OpenBridge, an MCP-compliant server that enables AI assistants to access scientific APIs through natural language. It converts OpenAPI Specification (OAS) endpoints into Model Context Protocol (MCP) tools and enriches responses with JavaScript Object Notation for Linked Data (JSON-LD) for improved semantic clarity. As we demonstrate using data from Paper Analytical Devices (PADs), OpenBridge allows researchers to retrieve and explore structured data without writing code. Thus, it offers a new approach to bridging domain experts and data systems through AI-assisted, semantically aware interfaces. The implementation is available at https://***/PaperAnalyticalDeviceND/OpenBridge.
[136] Mohammed Krameche,William Wilson,Arezki Tagnit-Hamou .Coupling EDS hypermaps and X-ray microtomography for advanced 3D microstructure characterization of cement paste: A step forward in multiscale modeling[J].Cement and Concrete Research,2026,199 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Investigating the microstructure of ordinary Portland cement (OPC) paste using X-ray micro-computed tomography (μ-CT) requires optimized acquisition and precise image segmentation to reliably differentiate phases. μ-CT image segmentation is challenged by the heterogeneous microstructure and limited contrast between microstructure phases in the X-ray linear attenuation coefficient. Conventional gray scale value thresholding often misclassifies phases, while previous machine learning (ML) approaches have relied on manually labeled training leading to subjectivity and replicability issues. This study proposes an innovative μ-CT image segmentation method for OPC paste, leveraging chemical information from quantitative energy dispersive spectroscopy (QEDS) mapping. The method workflow involves five steps: (1) μ-CT imaging to capture the 3D microstructure, (2) scanning electron microscopy backscattered electron (SEM-BSE) imaging and QEDS mapping to generate 2D phase maps, (3) image registration to align QEDS phase maps with μ-CT images, (4) phase separability optimization using denoising and sharpening of the μ-CT images, and (5) ML-based segmentation using the random forest approach and training labels from QEDS-derived phase maps. The proposed method effectively differentiates portlandite from hydrates matrix, as well as ferrite from clinker phases. This paper further details two main applications of the method: (1) quantification of phase assemblage, hydration degree, and particle size distribution (PSD) of residual anhydrous phases, with results compared to thermodynamic modeling, and (2) the first-ever comprehensive quantitative microstructural characterization of a grid of 32 microcube samples, revealing spatial heterogeneity in phase fractions, porosity, particle counts, and microcube volumes. These results provide critical input for calibrating and validating micromechanical upscaling models.
[137] Gardiner, Ross J.,Mougeot, Guillaume,Rowlands, Sareh ,等.Bridging Domain Gaps for Fine-Grained Moth Classification Through Expert-Informed Adaptation and Foundation Model Priors[M].2025 IEEE/CVF INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON COMPUTER VISION WORKSHOPS, ICCVW,2025,IEEE COMPUTER SOC
摘要：Labelling images of Lepidoptera (moths) from automated camera systems is vital for understanding insect declines. However, accurate species identification is challenging due to domain shifts between curated images and noisy field imagery. We propose a lightweight classification approach, combining limited expert-labelled field data with knowledge distillation from the high-performance BioCLIP2 foundation model into a ConvNeXt-tiny architecture. Experiments on 101 Danish moth species from AMI camera systems demonstrate that BioCLIP2 substantially outperforms other methods and that our distilled lightweight model achieves comparable accuracy with significantly reduced computational cost. These insights offer practical guidelines for the development of efficient insect monitoring systems and bridging domain gaps for fine-grained classification.
[138] Wei, Yawei,Zhang, Lulu .Wavelet-Based Multiscale Coupling Index for Transient Voltage Stability Assessment in Renewable Power Systems[M].2025 10TH ASIA CONFERENCE ON POWER AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, ACPEE,2025,IEEE
摘要：The increasing integration of renewable energy sources (RES) into power systems introduces unprecedented challenges to transient voltage stability due to the fast dynamics of power electronic devices. Traditional stability assessment methods, relying on long-term simulations (0 - 10 s) or multivariable analyses, struggle to capture rapid transients (0.1 - 0.3 s) caused by grid-following inverter controls, leading to computational inefficiency and delayed instability detection. This paper proposes a Wavelet-based Multiscale Transient Voltage Stability Index (WMTVSI) to address these limitations. By leveraging discrete wavelet decomposition (db5 wavelet, 5-level), the method decouples high-frequency disturbances (D1 - D3: 12.5 - 100 Hz) from low-frequency electromechanical oscillations (D4 - D5: 3.125 - 12.5 Hz), enabling rapid feature extraction from voltage signals. Key innovations include as Time-frequency decoupling: Direct mapping of wavelet coefficients to stability criteria, reducing the analysis window to 1 s post-fault;Multiscale dynamic integration: A weighted coupling function (D1 - D5) quantifies transient energy distribution and oscillation damping, collapsing multidimensional features into a single index (WMTVSI);Feature dimensionality reduction slashes computation time to 0.6 s for severe faults. Validation on the CEPRI-VC benchmark system (100 buses, 46% RES penetration) demonstrates WMTVSI's efficacy in identifying instability within 0.5 s across scenarios, including critical tie-line faults, topology changes, and load mutations. Results show outperforming conventional methods in accuracy and speed. The WMTVSI establishes a paradigm shift for real-time transient stability assessment in RES-integrated grids.
[139] Li, Dajing,Xu, Erqi,Zhang, Hongqi .Multiscale and multifunctional analysis of the coupling relationship between land use and desertification[J].Land Degradation & Development,2024,35 (1):183-195,WILEY
摘要：Understanding the interactions between land use and desertification in arid regions is crucial for both improving human well-being and achieving the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. However, there has been limited research on the effect of spatial scale on this relationship, especially within different land utilization function orientations. We used a revised coupling relationship index to analyze the complex interactions and dynamic changes between land use and desertification with multiscale and multifunctional oriented regions in the Tarim Basin, northwest China. Our results showed that the coupling relationship was more significant in small watersheds than in large watersheds. An inverted U-shaped curve was observed for the coupling relationship with an increase in the proportion of cultivated land, which changed with the land utilization function orientations. The watersheds with a high proportion of unused land and a fragile ecological environment were dominated by negative coupling. Watersheds with roughly equal proportions of forest-grassland and cultivated land showed positive coupling and followed an inverted U-shaped trend. Watersheds with a relatively high proportion of cultivated land may achieve a win-win situation with both the reclamation of cultivated land and the control of desertification. Our study proves the necessity of research about the coupling differences in different functional oriented regions and may also help to suggest action priorities to desertification control and ecological restoration.
[140] Palumbo, Annunziata,Versaci, Mario .Controlling Sedimentation in Magnetorheological Fluids Through Ultrasound-Magnetic Field Coupling: Multiscale Analysis and Applications[J].Mathematics,2025,13 (15),MDPI
摘要：Magnetorheological fluids (MRFs) are multiphase materials whose viscosity can be controlled via magnetic fields. However, particle sedimentation undermines their long-term stability. This review examines stabilization strategies based on the interaction between ultrasonic waves and time-varying magnetic fields, analyzed through advanced mathematical models. The propagation of acoustic waves in spherical and cylindrical domains is studied, including effects such as cavitation, acoustic radiation forces, and viscous attenuation. The Biot-Stoll poroelastic model is employed to describe saturated granular media, while magnetic field modulation is investigated as a means to balance gravitational settling. The analysis highlights how acousto-magnetic coupling supports the design of programmable and self-stabilizing intelligent fluids for complex applications.
[141] Ortiz, Jesus Eduardo,Creixell, Werner .Advancing Trans-Domain Classification With Knowledge Distillation: Bridging LIDAR and Image Data[J].IEEE Access,2025,13 :20574-20583,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Recent advancements in deep learning have significantly improved image classification models, yet extending these models to alternative data forms, such as point clouds from Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) sensors, presents considerable challenges. This paper explores applying knowledge distillation techniques as a solution, aiming to transfer the learned competencies from established image classification frameworks to point cloud classification tasks. Our methodology involves distilling complex model insights into more computationally efficient forms suitable for LIDAR data, thus enabling substantial resource savings without sacrificing performance. Experimental evaluations across various benchmark datasets demonstrate that our distilled models not only rival their original counterparts in accuracy but also surpass conventional point cloud classification methods in both efficiency and scalability. Additionally, we delve into the impact of varying distillation techniques on model adaptability and performance within the LIDAR domain. The findings underscore the utility of knowledge distillation in enhancing the trans-domain applicability of image classification models, potentially revolutionizing their deployment across diverse data types.
[142] Zuo, Hong,Yang, Zhiqiang,Cui, Junzhi ,等.High-order models for hydro-mechanical coupling problems in multiscale porous media[J].International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering,2024,125 (11),WILEY
摘要：An accurate prediction of nonlinear hydro-mechanical (HM) coupling in subsurface structures with pronounced heterogeneity at multiple spatial scales is still an open topic and crucial for numerous engineering applications, for example, hydraulic fracturing and enhanced geothermal systems. In this study, novel high-order multi-scale asymptotic solutions are developed to accurately capture the locally oscillating characteristics of gas flow and solid displacement fields at multiple scales. First, the formal macro-meso two-scale asymptotic expansion is performed to establish the homogenized solutions and macro-meso high-order models which can predict the HM coupling problems at the macroscale and mesoscale. By directly expanding the cell functions defined at the mesoscale to the microscopic levels, the high-order two-scale expansion for the mesoscopic cell functions is built, and the upscaled relations for the flow parameters and constitutive coefficients from the microscale to the mesoscale and macroscale are developed correspondingly. The multi-scale low/high-order models are established by combining the high-order expansion of all cell functions at the mesoscale and the developed macro-meso two-scale models. The main contributions are that the present approaches follow the reverse thought processes of reiteration homogenization methods, and offer a very innovative and efficient way to establish high-accuracy high-order models for the nonlinear HM coupling problems in the heterogeneous porous medium with any number of spatial scales. The effectiveness and accuracy of the present solution are validated by several representative cases with different constitutive coefficient contrasts. The results demonstrate that the high-order solutions provide an accurate prediction for gas transport and solid deformation of heterogeneous porous media with multi-scale configurations.
[143] Zhong, Xiang,Gu, Zhuo,Shanmuganathan, Manimurugan ,等.Bridging radiology and pathology: domain-generalized cross-modal learning for clinical[J].npj Digital Medicine,2026,9 (1):1-14,NATURE PORTFOLIO
摘要：Reliable interpretation of clinical imaging requires integrating complementary evidence across modalities, yet most AI systems remain limited by single-modality analysis and poor generalization across institutions. We propose a unified cross-modal framework that bridges mammography and histopathology for breast cancer diagnosis through: (1) a shared vision transformer encoder with lightweight modality-specific adapters, (2) a weakly supervised patient-level contrastive alignment module that learns cross-modal correspondences without pixel-level supervision, (3) domain generalization strategies combining MixStyle augmentation and invariant risk minimization, and (4) causal test-time adaptation for unseen target domains. The model jointly addresses classification, lesion localization, and pathological grading while generating reasoning-guided attention maps that explicitly link suspicious mammographic regions with corresponding histopathological evidence. Evaluated on four public benchmarks (CBIS-DDSM, INbreast, BACH, CAMELYON16/17), the framework consistently outperforms state-of-the-art unimodal, multimodal, and domain generalization baselines, achieving mean AUC of 0.90 under rigorous leave-one-domain-out evaluation and substantially smaller domain gaps (0.03 vs. 0.06-0.10). Visualization and interpretability analyses further confirm that predictions align with clinically meaningful features, supporting transparency and trust. By advancing multimodal integration, cross-institutional robustness, and explainability, this study represents a step toward clinically deployable AI systems for diagnostic decision support.
[144] Smith, Edward R.,Theodorakis, Panagiotis E. .Multiscale simulation of fluids: coupling molecular and continuum[J].Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics,2024,26 (2):724-744,ROYAL SOC CHEMISTRY
摘要：Computer simulation is an important tool for scientific progress, especially when lab experiments are either extremely costly and difficult or lack the required resolution. However, all of the simulation methods come with limitations. In molecular dynamics (MD) simulation, the length and time scales that can be captured are limited, while computational fluid dynamics (CFD) methods are built on a range of assumptions, from the continuum hypothesis itself, to a variety of closure assumptions. To address these issues, the coupling of different methodologies provides a way to retain the best of both methods. Here, we provide a perspective on multiscale simulation based on the coupling of MD and CFD with each a distinct part of the same simulation domain. This style of coupling allows molecular detail to be present only where it is needed, so CFD can model larger scales than possible with MD alone. We present a unified perspective of the literature, showing the links between the two main types of coupling, state and flux, and discuss the varying assumptions in their use. A unique challenge in such coupled simulation is obtaining averages and constraining local parts of a molecular simulation. We highlight that incorrect localisation has resulted in an error in the literature. We then finish with some applications, focused on the simulation of fluids. Thus, we hope to motivate further research in this exciting area with applications across the spectrum of scientific disciplines. Coupling of molecular dynamics and computational fluid dynamics methods.
[145] Zhang, Guangbin,Jiang, Yonghua,Wei, Shaodong ,等.Hierarchical Domain Adaptation Framework for Disparity Estimation in Optical Satellite Stereo Imagery: Bridging Spatiotemporal-Sensor Heterogeneity[J].IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing,2025,63 ,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Deep learning-based disparity estimation methods have demonstrated significant potential in optical satellite stereo image applications. However, learning-based methods remain susceptible to domain shifts caused by spatiotemporal variations and stereo-sensor heterogeneity. To address these challenges, we propose a hierarchical domain adaptation disparity estimation (HDADE) framework for optical satellite stereo images. HDADE was structured with a four-stage technique pipeline to improve the training data quality and diversity, explicitly align the spectral and stereo distribution, implicitly enhance the robustness of feature extraction and matching, and directly facilitate feature alignment with the target domain. This hierarchical framework systematically mitigates disparity estimation accuracy degradation in cross-domain scenarios. Cross-spatiotemporal and cross-payload generalization experiments were conducted based on the WHU_Stereo and US3D datasets. The experimental results show that HDADE significantly outperformed other advanced methods and possessed plug-and-play versatility. Notably, greater domain shift scene transfer experiments indicated that, with limited annotation data, HDADE has the potential for large-scale automatic applications.
[146] Min Wang,Pengzhi Pan,Andrew H.C.Chan ,等.Editorial for Multiscale&Multifield Coupling in Geomechanics[J].Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering,2024,16 (6):1919-1921,Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：We are delighted to serve as guest editors for this special issue in the Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical *** purpose of this special issue is dedicated to gathering the latest research work on Multiscale&Multifield Coupling in Geomechanics,where we delve into the intricate interplay of various fields and scales that govern the behavior of *** total,30 manuscripts from USA,China,UK,Germany,Canada,India and United Arab Emirates are selected to be included in this issue.
[147] Wei Zhang,Xinci Liu,Tong Chen ,等.Bridging imaging and genomics: Domain knowledge guided spatial transcriptomics analysis[J].Information Fusion,2026,127, Part A ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Spatial Transcriptomics (ST) provides spatially resolved gene expression distributions mapped onto high-resolution Whole Slide Images (WSIs), revealing the association between cellular morphology and gene expression profiles. However, the high costs and equipment constraints associated with ST data collection have led to a scarcity of ST datasets. Moreover, existing ST datasets often exhibit sparse gene expression distributions, which limit the accuracy and generalizability of gene expression prediction models derived from WSIs. To address these challenges, we propose DomainST (Domain knowledge-guided Spatial Transcriptomics analysis), a novel framework that leverages domain knowledge through Large Language Models (LLMs) to extract effective gene representations and utilizes foundation models to obtain robust image features for enhanced spatial gene expression prediction. Specifically, we utilize public gene reference databases to retrieve comprehensive gene summaries and employ LLMs to refine gene descriptions and generate informative gene embeddings. Concurrently, we apply medical visual-language foundation models to distill robust image representations at multiple scales, capturing the spatial context of WSIs. We further design a multimodal mixture of experts fusion module to effectively integrate multimodal data, leveraging complementary information across modalities. Extensive experiments conducted on three public ST datasets indicate that our method consistently outperforms state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods, with increases ranging from 6.7 % to 13.7 % in PCC@50 across all datasets compared to the SOTA, demonstrating the effectiveness of combining foundation models and LLM-derived domain knowledge for gene expression prediction. Our code and gene features are available at <a class="anchor anchor-primary" href="https://***/coffeeNtv/DomainST" target="_blank"><span class="anchor-text-container"><span class="anchor-text">https://***/coffeeNtv/DomainST<
[148] Zakaria Chafia,Julien Yvonnet,Jérémy Bleyer .A bridging-domain approach for multiscale modeling of anisotropic fracture in large-scale heterogeneous structures[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2026,452, Part B ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The prediction of the mechanical response of strongly heterogeneous structures containing defects critically depends on accurately capturing crack nucleation at micro scale. Fully resolved (high-fidelity) models are costly, whereas homogenized approaches may fail to represent initiation near heterogeneities. An efficient multiscale method is proposed in this work to simulate crack nucleation and propagation by bridging a high-fidelity micro-subdomain, dedicated to initiation, with a homogenized macro-subdomain used for propagation. The two subdomains overlap, may be discretized with nonconforming meshes, and are coupled through an energy-based formulation. The main contribution lies in the use, at the macro scale, of a surrogate anisotropic damage model constructed offline within the DDHAD (Data-Driven Harmonic Analysis of Damage) framework. This model reproduces direction-dependent crack propagation, while nucleation is resolved at the micro scale by the high-fidelity model. Significant computational speed-ups are achieved as compared to high-resolution simulations of the entire structure, and by accurately capturing initiation of the cracks in the microstructure. Examples on heterogeneous media exhibiting strong preferred crack orientations are presented to illustrate the potential of the approach.
[149] Gao, Chungong,Hong, Shunjun,Yang, Zihai ,等.Multiscale wear mechanisms of centrifugal pumps under high-sediment conditions: particle size-concentration coupling effects in Southern Xinjiang irrigation systems[J].Water Practice and Technology,2026,21 (1):145-168,IWA PUBLISHING
摘要：To address the severe performance degradation (head reduction <= 43%) and shortened service life of centrifugal pumps caused by high-concentration fine-sand water in Southern Xinjiang irrigation districts, this study establishes a multiphase flow-wear coupling analysis framework. Using experimentally validated realizable k-epsilon modeling, we investigate flow patterns and wear mechanisms under both clear and sediment-laden conditions (15%/16.5% concentration, 0.06-0.40 mm particles). Under clear water, 0.95Q ensures optimal pressure-streamline synergy, whereas 0.75Q induces vortex breakdown with TKE surges, and 1.15Q accelerates efficiency decay. At 15% sediment concentration, 0.15-0.25 mm particles achieve hydraulic compatibility. Increasing to 16.5%, fine sand (<0.1 mm) triggers nested 'vortex-in-vortex' structures, while 0.15 mm particles exhibit a 25% steeper concentration gradient. Coarse sand (0.40 mm) forms settling nuclei in the impeller. The impeller outlet shows maximal wear, validated experimentally. This study offers theoretical and technical support for pump operation in sediment-laden flows.
[150] Xiao, Wenxiao .Towards Cross-Domain Knowledge Transfer: Bridging the Domain Shift With Semantic Alignment and Human-in-the-Loop[D],2025
摘要：Domain adaptation aims to transfer knowledge from a well-annotated source domain to a target domain with limited or no labeled data. A major challenge in this process is the domain shift problem, where the data distributions of the source and target domains differ significantly. Traditional domain adaptation methods primarily focus on re-weighting samples to align the data distributions, often neglecting the semantic relationships. Furthermore, previous approaches lack interpretability and fail to consider the performance of individual categories. In this dissertation, we propose novel frameworks that address these challenges by utilizing semantic alignment, visualizing transferred knowledge, and integrating human-in-the-loop strategies to improve domain adaptation performance. By integrating explainable AI and data-centric AI techniques, we offer new perspectives on domain adaptation, with potential applications including model diagnostics, large language model fine-tuning, and beyond.
[151] Woosang Jeon,Taehyeong Kim,Sanghyeok Choi ,等.Bridging the Lab-to-Field gap in plant disease diagnosis through unsupervised domain adaptation enhanced by background recomposition[J].Ecological Informatics,2026,93 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Early detection of plant diseases caused by pests, pathogens such as viruses is essential for preventing their spread and minimizing crop damage, particularly in indoor farming and orchards. Machine learning-based computer vision approaches have emerged as promising tools for automated disease diagnosis, but their implementation faces critical challenges due to the scarcity of labeled data from real agricultural environments. Consequently, models are primarily trained using laboratory-collected images with monotonous backgrounds, resulting in significantly reduced performance when deployed in real cultivation environments. To address these challenges, this study presents a two-step adaptation method to bridge the gap between laboratory and real-field environments in plant disease diagnosis. Our approach first applies field-adaptive background recomposition for image augmentation, followed by unsupervised domain adaptation, enabling effective disease diagnosis in real agricultural environments. We quantitatively and qualitatively validated the proposed method on disease identification tasks for tomato, chili pepper, grape, and apple leaves, achieving robust performance in field environments without requiring labeled real-field data.
[152] Weilu Li,Yun Zhang,Hao Zhou ,等.CLMS: Bridging domain gaps in medical imaging segmentation with source-free continual learning for robust knowledge transfer and adaptation[J].Medical Image Analysis,2025,100 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Deep learning shows promise for medical image segmentation but suffers performance declines when applied to diverse healthcare sites due to data discrepancies among the different sites. Translating deep learning models to new clinical environments is challenging, especially when the original source data used for training is unavailable due to privacy restrictions. Source-free domain adaptation (SFDA) aims to adapt models to new unlabeled target domains without requiring access to the original source data. However, existing SFDA methods face challenges such as error propagation, misalignment of visual and structural features, and inability to preserve source knowledge. This paper introduces Continual Learning Multi-Scale domain adaptation (CLMS), an end-to-end SFDA framework integrating multi-scale reconstruction, continual learning, and style alignment to bridge domain gaps across medical sites using only unlabeled target data or publicly available data. Compared to the current state-of-the-art methods, CLMS consistently and significantly achieved top performance for different tasks, including prostate MRI segmentation (improved Dice of 10.87 %), colonoscopy polyp segmentation (improved Dice of 17.73 %), and plus disease classification from retinal images (improved AUC of 11.19 %). Crucially, CLMS preserved source knowledge for all the tasks, avoiding catastrophic forgetting. CLMS demonstrates a promising solution for translating deep learning models to new clinical imaging domains towards safe, reliable deployment across diverse healthcare settings.
[153] Li, Xiangzhe,Ren, Lizhi,Zheng, Xiaojia ,等.Multiscale Coupling Between Macroscopic Mechanics and Atomic Assembly (MM-AA) of Soft-Lattice Halide Perovskites[J].Aggregate,2025,6 (11):e70170,WILEY
摘要：Halide perovskites are promising candidates for optoelectronic devices, but their solution-processed films frequently suffer from solute aggregation, crystalline disorder, and random orientation, that is, defects that significantly compromise device performance. These issues arise from complex multiscale interactions during film formation, where macroscopic mechanical forces could hypothetically influence atomic-scale assembly. This review elucidates the critical role of multiscale mechanical coupling (linking surface/interface mechanics, fluid dynamics, and crystallization kinetics) in governing perovskite film quality, which ultimately enhanced the uniformity of film thickness, photoelectric performance, and long-term stability. We first analyze how solvent evaporation, interfacial energy, and flow-induced shear shape the spatiotemporal evolution of solute distribution and crystal growth. Building on this understanding, we present mechanical regulation strategies aimed at directing film formation: modifying wettability through surfactants and surface energy modulators;manipulating flow behavior via Marangoni convection and shear stress;and mitigating interfacial stress through lattice and thermal expansion matching. To further enhance structural control, we highlight fabrication techniques that couple multiple external fields (e.g., thermal, electrical, mechanical, and chemical fields) and leverage in situ characterization for real-time feedback. Finally, we explore machine learning-assisted multiscale modeling as a powerful tool to connect atomic interactions with macroscopic processing variables, enabling predictive optimization. By integrating these insights, this review establishes a unified framework for guiding high-quality, scalable perovskite film fabrication toward industrial deployment.
[154] Zhang, Hanping,Guo, Yuhong .Bridging Dynamics Gaps via Diffusion Schrödinger Bridge for Cross-Domain Reinforcement Learning[J].arXiv,2026,arXiv
摘要：Cross-domain reinforcement learning (RL) aims to learn transferable policies under dynamics shifts between source and target domains. A key challenge lies in the lack of target-domain environment interaction and reward supervision, which prevents direct policy learning. To address this challenge, we propose Bridging Dynamics Gaps for Cross-Domain Reinforcement Learning (BDGxRL), a novel framework that leverages Diffusion Schrödinger Bridge (DSB) to align source transitions with target-domain dynamics encoded in offline demonstrations. Moreover, we introduce a reward modulation mechanism that estimates rewards based on state transitions, applying to DSB-aligned samples to ensure consistency between rewards and target-domain dynamics. BDGxRL performs target-oriented policy learning entirely within the source domain, without access to the target environment or its rewards. Experiments on MuJoCo cross-domain benchmarks demonstrate that BDGxRL outperforms state-of-the-art baselines and shows strong adaptability under transition dynamics shifts. Copyright © 2026, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[155] Girelli, A.,Giantesio, G.,Musesti, A. ,等.Multiscale homogenization for dual porosity time-dependent Darcy-Brinkman/Darcy coupling and its application to the lymph node[J].Royal Society Open Science,2024,11 (7),ROYAL SOC
摘要：We study the coupling between time-dependent Darcy-Brinkman and the Darcy equations at the microscale subjected to inhomogeneous body forces and initial conditions to describe a double porosity problem. We derive the homogenized governing equations for this problem using the asymptotic homogenization technique, and as macroscopic results, we obtain a coupling between two Darcy equations, one of which with memory effects, with mass exchange between phases. The memory effects are a consequence of considering the time dependence in the Darcy-Brinkman equation, and they allow us to study in more detail the role of time in the problem under consideration. After the formulation of the model, we solve it in a simplified setting and we use it to describe the movement of fluid within a vascularized lymph node.
[156] Escobar, Raul A. Del Aguila,Suarez-Figueroa, Maria Del Carmen,Lopez, Mariano Fernandez ,等.Bridging Text and Knowledge: Explainable AI for Knowledge Graph Classification and Concept Map-Based Semantic Domain Discovery with OBOE Framework[J].Applied Sciences,2025,15 (22),MDPI
摘要：Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) has primarily focused on explaining model predictions, yet a critical gap remains in explaining semantic structure discovery within knowledge graphs derived from concept maps (CMs). This study extends the OBOE (explanatiOns Based On concEpts) framework to address a fundamentally different problem, explainable domain discovery in knowledge graphs (KGs) classification, moving beyond supervised classification to unsupervised structural explanation. Our approach integrates Knowledge Graph Embeddings (KGEs), clustering algorithms, and Large Language Models (LLMs) in a novel triple role-generating structural explanations, verifying hallucinations, and enabling large-scale evaluation. Concept-relation-concept triples are embedded through KGEs and clustered using hierarchical and spectral methods to reveal semantic domains, with QualIT-inspired LLM prompting via Chain-of-Thought reasoning. Evaluation across three corpora (Amazon, BBC News, and Reuters) demonstrated robust classification with mean per-class errors of 0.1, 0.147, and 0.142, and LogLoss values of 0.236, 0.342, and 0.395, discovering 92 semantic domains across 17 topics. Hierarchical clustering achieved superior performance (mean 3.78/5) with higher relevance, while spectral clustering offered better coverage (3.51/5) through more compact structures. By bridging traditional clustering with LLM-based explanation and evaluation, this work establishes a new XAI paradigm for knowledge organization contexts where understanding semantic graph structure is as critical as classification accuracy.
[157] Taegeun Kim,Hyoungsoo Ko,Jaewon Jang ,等.An efficient multiscale coupling method for simulations of reactor-scale chemical vapor deposition with microstructural features[J].Advances in Engineering Software,2026,212 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：An efficient multiscale coupling method is proposed for simulations of reactor-scale chemical vapor deposition (CVD) with microstructural features. Reactor-scale and microstructure-resolved feature-scale models are coupled through an effective reaction rate formalism, enabling high-resolution deposition simulations while significantly reducing computational cost. A parameterized microstructural model is introduced, in which the relationship between the effective reaction rate and local species consumption rates in the reactor-scale model is directly mapped using precomputed Monte Carlo simulation data. This eliminates the need for iterative calculations or direct numerical simulations of the surface reaction across all the discretized grid points on the wafer, ensuring predictive accuracy while enhancing computational efficiency. Furthermore, an adaptive time-stepping method is developed, dynamically adjusting the time-step size for the feature-scale model based on variations in the effective reaction rate. Through this approach, simulation time is reduced by more than one-third compared to conventional fixed time-step methods, while preserving the accuracy of the effective reaction rate model. The proposed method enables practical and scalable multiscale CVD simulations applicable to industrial reactor design and process optimization, establishing a computationally efficient strategy for integrating reactor-scale and microstructure-resolved feature-scale models.
[158] Zhou, Kanglei,Shum, Hubert P. H.,Li, Frederick W. B. ,等.PHI: Bridging Domain Shift in Long-Term Action Quality Assessment via Progressive Hierarchical Instruction[J].IEEE Transactions on Image Processing,2025,34 :3718-3732,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Long-term Action Quality Assessment (AQA) aims to evaluate the quantitative performance of actions in long videos. However, existing methods face challenges due to domain shifts between the pre-trained large-scale action recognition backbones and the specific AQA task, thereby hindering their performance. This arises since fine-tuning resource-intensive backbones on small AQA datasets is impractical. We address this by identifying two levels of domain shift: task-level, regarding differences in task objectives, and feature-level, regarding differences in important features. For feature-level shifts, which are more detrimental, we propose Progressive Hierarchical Instruction (PHI) with two strategies. First, Gap Minimization Flow (GMF) leverages flow matching to progressively learn a fast flow path that reduces the domain gap between initial and desired features across shallow to deep layers. Additionally, a temporally-enhanced attention module captures long-range dependencies essential for AQA. Second, List-wise Contrastive Regularization (LCR) facilitates coarse-to-fine alignment by comprehensively comparing batch pairs to learn fine-grained cues while mitigating domain shift. Integrating these modules, PHI offers an effective solution. Experiments demonstrate that PHI achieves state-of-the-art performance on three representative long-term AQA datasets, proving its superiority in addressing the domain shift for long-term AQA.
[159] Qingwen Liu,Zejun Li,Zhihao Fan ,等.Bridging the Domain Gap in Grounded Situation Recognition via Unifying Event Extraction across Modalities[J].Data Intelligence,2025,7 (1):143-162,Science Press
摘要：Event extraction extracts event frames from text, while grounded situation recognition detects events in images. As real-world applications frequently encounter a multitude of unforeseen events, certain researchers have introduced cross-domain and in-domain event extraction, while grounded situation recognition primarily explores in-domain scenarios. Therefore, in this paper, we propose cross-domain grounded situation recognition and establish a new benchmark SWiG-XD. In this more challenging setting, we deepen the connection between the two tasks based on their underlying unity in two different modalities and explore how to transfer the generalization ability from text to images. Firstly, we utilize ChatGPT to automatically generate textual data, which can be divided into two categories. One category is directly matched with images, establishing a direct connection with the images. The other category encompasses all event types and possesses greater generalization. Then we employ a unified model framework to establish the association between textual concepts and local image features and achieve cross-domain generalization transfer across modalities through modality-shared prompts and self-attention mechanism. Furthermore, we incorporate textual data with higher generalization to further assist in improving generalization on images. The experimental results on the newly constructed benchmark demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.
[160] Yang, Jingyu,Jiao, Dandan,Yue, Biao ,等.Bridging the Intertemporal Domain Shift for Remote Sensing Change Detection via Domain Adaptation[J].IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing,2025,63 ,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Detecting changes by comparing two remote sensing images of the same area, acquired at different times, is often complicated because these images are typically captured under varying acquisition conditions, including but not limited to different seasons and inherent differences in imaging spectral characteristics. This discrepancy creates a "temporal domain shift," leading to errors such as false alarms and blurred boundaries in results. To address this challenge, this article proposes an adversarial domain adaptation network for change detection (ADANet-CD). ADANet-CD employs a two-stage progressive optimization strategy. In the encoding stage, it first constructs a dynamic adversarial mechanism between the feature extractor and the domain classifier. At the same time, a temporal mutual-aware attention module (TMAM) is designed to enhance domain-invariant feature discrimination by leveraging the fusion and interaction of spatiotemporal features. Then, a binary-guided distance loss (BDL) based on Minkowski distance is introduced to explicitly constrain the distribution alignment of bi-temporal features. In the decoding stage, an interactive difference enhancement module (IDEM) is proposed. This module aims to sharpen the model's focus on true changes while reducing its reliance on domain-specific details, further mitigating the domain shift. Experimental results on the CDD, LEVIR-CD, and DSIFN-CD datasets demonstrate that ADANet-CD outperforms existing methods in terms of both precision and $F1$ -score, exhibiting superior performance in both change region localization and nonchange region suppression.
[161] Nunes, Joao D.,Montezuma, Diana,Oliveira, Domingos ,等.Bridging Domain Gaps in Computational Pathology: A Comparative Study of Adaptation Strategies[J].Sensors,2025,25 (9):2856,MDPI
摘要：Due to the high variability in Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E)-stained Whole Slide Images (WSIs), hidden stratification, and batch effects, generalizing beyond the training distribution is one of the main challenges in Deep Learning (DL) for Computational Pathology (CPath). But although DL depends on large volumes of diverse and annotated data, it is common to have a significant number of annotated samples from one or multiple source distributions, and another partially annotated or unlabeled dataset representing a target distribution for which we want to generalize, the so-called Domain Adaptation (DA). In this work, we focus on the task of generalizing from a single source distribution to a target domain. As it is still not clear which domain adaptation strategy is best suited for CPath, we evaluate three different DA strategies, namely FixMatch, CycleGAN, and a self-supervised feature extractor, and show that DA is still a challenge in CPath.
[162] Dai, Yongxing,Sun, Yifan,Liu, Jun ,等.Bridging the Source-to-Target Gap for Cross-Domain Person Re-identification with Intermediate Domains[J].International Journal of Computer Vision,2025,133 (1):410-434,SPRINGER
摘要：Cross-domain person re-identification (re-ID), such as unsupervised domain adaptive re-ID (UDA re-ID), aims to transfer the identity-discriminative knowledge from the source to the target domain. Existing methods commonly consider the source and target domains are isolated from each other, i.e., no intermediate status is modeled between the source and target domains. Directly transferring the knowledge between two isolated domains can be very difficult, especially when the domain gap is large. This paper, from a novel perspective, assumes these two domains are not completely isolated, but can be connected through a series of intermediate domains. Instead of directly aligning the source and target domains against each other, we propose to align the source and target domains against their intermediate domains so as to facilitate a smooth knowledge transfer. To discover and utilize these intermediate domains, this paper proposes an Intermediate Domain Module (IDM) and a Mirrors Generation Module (MGM). IDM has two functions: (1) it generates multiple intermediate domains by mixing the hidden-layer features from source and target domains and (2) it dynamically reduces the domain gap between the source/target domain features and the intermediate domain features. While IDM achieves good domain alignment effect, it introduces a side effect, i.e., the mix-up operation may mix the identities into a new identity and lose the original identities. Accordingly, MGM is introduced to compensate the loss of the original identity by mapping the features into the IDM-generated intermediate domains without changing their original identity. It allows to focus on minimizing domain variations to further promote the alignment between the source/target domain and intermediate domains, which reinforces IDM into IDM++. We extensively evaluate our method under both the UDA and domain generalization (DG) scenarios and observe that IDM++ yields consistent (and usually significant) performance i
[163] Liu, Zemu,Qin, Zhida,Zhou, Pengzhan ,等.Bridging Time and Domains: A Time-aware Framework for Cross-Domain Sequential Recommendation[M],2026,Association for Computing Machinery, Inc
摘要：Cross-domain sequential recommendation (CDSR) aims to utilize users' interactions across multiple domains to alleviate the problem of interaction sparsity that is prevalent in web platforms, thereby providing more accurate personalized recommendations. Although current CDSR methods have made some progress, they suffer from two main limitations: (i) assuming uniformly distributed interactions over time;and (ii) neglecting temporal influences during cross-domain transfer. In order to address the above issues, we propose a novel Time-Aware Cross-Domain Sequential Recommendation framework (TA-CDSR). First, we design a time-sensitive attention which captures user preferences over time by decoupling interaction sequences and time sequences. Second, we propose a time-guided preference generator that can reconstruct the lacking interactions in the target domain by taking the source domain interactions time as guidance information. Finally, we design a multi-scale time windows based domain transfer module, which can dynamically identify the temporal interaction density and thus adaptively assign the weights of cross-domain information. Extensive experiments on three real-world datasets indicate that TA-CDSR achieves competitive time complexity while outperforming other baselines. © 2026 Owner/Author.
[164] Jinhuan Shan,Wei Jiang,Xiao Feng .Bridging cross-domain and cross-resolution gaps for UAV-based pavement crack segmentation[J].Automation in Construction,2025,174 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The acquisition of pavement distress images using UAVs presents unique challenges compared to ground-based methods due to differences in camera configurations, flight parameters, and lighting conditions. These factors introduce domain shifts that undermine the generalizability of segmentation models. To address these limitations, an interactive segmentation model, CDCR-ISeg, is proposed to bridge the gap between industrial requirements and existing methodologies. A dedicated dataset comprising 1500 pixel-wise annotated UAV images (UAV-CrackX4, X8, X16) was constructed, capturing various zoom levels and domain conditions to support the model's development. CDCR-ISeg incorporates super-resolution and domain adaptation techniques to enhance model generalization while reducing annotation efforts. Additionally, a vector map is introduced to improve boundary detection by embedding positive and negative clicks with reversed vector map directions. This approach effectively enables high-precision detection of pavement distress under diverse UAV parameter settings, addressing the critical challenges of adaptability and scalability in UAV-based pavement inspection.
[165] Sebastian Davies,Rabie Omar,Dzianis Litskevich ,等.Coupling between LOTUS and CTF with DYN3D within a multiscale and multiphysics software development[J].Progress in Nuclear Energy,2024,173 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Coupling of nuclear codes can be performed at several scale levels and is necessary to improve their reliability and sustainability. Mainly, the coupling of nuclear codes that use nodal expansion neutronics with channel thermal hydraulics has been carried out at the fuel assembly level while, only recently, the coupling of nuclear codes that use advanced neutronics, thermal hydraulics, and thermo-mechanics has been carried out at either the fuel pin or materials level. Meanwhile, in the UK, a multiscale and multi-physics software development between NURESIM and CASL is being developed, which includes a coupling software environment that enables the coupling of nuclear codes at several scale levels. Full coupled reactor physics at either the fuel pin or materials level can be obtained by coupling the transport code LOTUS, the subchannel code CTF, and the nodal code DYN3D. In this journal article, a multi ways coupling between LOTUS and CTF at either the fuel pin or materials levels with DYN3D at the fuel assembly level is compared to a multi ways coupling between DYN3D and CTF at the fuel pin level with DYN3D at the fuel assembly level and a multi ways coupling between Open MC and CTF at the materials level with DYN3D at the fuel assembly level. These comparisons have been carried out to present the coupled reactor physics verifications at either the fuel pin or materials levels. These show that the multi ways coupling between LOTUS and CTF at either the fuel pin or materials levels with DYN3D at the fuel assembly level outperforms the multi ways coupling between DYN3D and CTF at the fuel pin level with DYN3D at the fuel assembly level due to the application in the former of full neutron transport. Also, these show that the multi ways coupling between LOTUS and CTF at the materials level with DYN3D at the fuel assembly level agrees with the multi ways coupling between Open MC and CTF at the materials level with DYN3D at the fuel assembly level due to the application
[166] Hongshan Pan,Kai Zhou .A multifaceted study of embedded seismic metamaterials: Bridging unit cells, bandgaps, and multi-domain characteristics[J].Structures,2025,71 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Seismic metamaterials (SMs) are an emerging technology for seismic mitigation. Existing studies have primarily focused on optimizing the configuration of SM unit cells to broaden the bandgap. However, the bandgap, as a highly idealized indicator, is built upon the assumption of a fully periodic arrangement of unit cells and cannot quantify the actual seismic attenuation of SMs under many practical circumstances. System-level approaches, such as time-domain and frequency-domain analyses, offer more pragmatic evaluations of the SM performance. Nevertheless, the complex interrelationships among these measures pose significant challenges for effective assessment. Therefore, this research aims to elucidate the intrinsic correlations among unit cell configuration, bandgap, and multi-domain characteristics, including frequency transmission and time transient behavior. A fully embedded SM is developed for in-depth investigations. High-fidelity finite element models are developed to characterize the bandgaps and multi-domain responses of the SM. Time transient analysis incorporating actual earthquake-induced ground motion data indicates the SM’s ability to attenuate real seismic waves. The attenuation spectrum extracted from the time transient analysis closely corresponds with that observed in frequency transmissions, regardless of SM operational conditions. Additionally, while bandgap analysis is efficient, relying solely on the bandgap is insufficient for quantifying SM wave attenuation performance. On the other hand, a combination of multi-domain analyses provides a more comprehensive metric for performance assessment, thereby contributing to future SM design.
[167] Zhao, Luying,Zhou, Yang,Hu, Xiaofei ,等.Ground-Satellite Coupling for Cross-View Geolocation Combined With Multiscale Fusion of Spatial Features[J].IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters,2024,21 :1-5,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Geolocating a street-view image by matching it with geotagged satellite images is crucial for location assessment. However, the perspective disparity between satellite and street-view images presents significant challenges. To address the issue, the mainstream approach is to convert satellite images to ground-level perspective. So, the reference satellite images not only required the center but also required the coverage to be consistent with the street-view images and sometimes even required consistency in the north direction, which is difficult to achieve in the practical applications. This letter introduces a ground-breaking method for converting ground-level images to satellite images. We effectively couple ground images and satellite images by establishing a hemispheric projection relationship to achieve conversion from ground images to satellite perspectives, thus solving the problem of huge perspective differences in cross-view geolocation (CVG). In addition, we propose the multiscale fusion of a spatial features mechanism to enhance deep feature representations and improve recall and geolocation accuracy. Our proposed methodology markedly enhances its practical utility and performance, attaining remarkable Top-1 accuracy rates of 75.08% on the CVACT_val dataset and 39.92% on the CVACT_test dataset, respectively, following a stringent quantitative appraisal. This advancement constitutes a substantial contribution to the progression of research in the field of CVG.
[168] Qian Chen,Jianping Qian,Han Yang ,等.Multiscale coupling analysis and modeling of airflow and heat transfer for warehouse-packaging-kiwifruit under forced-air cooling[J].Biosystems Engineering,2024,244 :166-176,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper develops and verifies a multiscale computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model to investigate the airflow and heat transfer in kiwifruit cold storage under forced-air cooling (FAC). The CFD model incorporates the material properties, geometry, position of kiwifruit and ventilated packaging box, and the detailed structure of the cooling unit. For the multiscale modeling, the material characteristics are described using three interconnected sub-models, focusing each on different spatial scales: the warehouse-scale, packaging-scale, and kiwifruit-scale. In the FAC experiment, the measured airflow and temperature on these three spatial scales were obtained and compared with the simulated results. The data analysis shows that the environmental fluctuations at different scales weaken significantly in a stepwise manner with the cushioning of packaging and fruit flesh, indicating coupling between the spatial scales, which is well reflected in the numerical simulation. The average kiwifruit temperature decreases from 20 to 6 °C in 14.5 h (experimental) and 15.6 h (simulated). Specifically, the average mean absolute error, mean absolute percentage error, and root mean squared error of the predicted airflow and kiwifruit temperature were 0.116 m s<sup>−1</sup>, 1.26 °C;26.8%, 14%;and 0.124 m s<sup>−1</sup>, 1.54 °C, respectively. These results indicate that the multiscale CFD model accurately and efficiently simulates the airflow and spatiotemporal temperature distribution in the given kiwifruit FAC system. Finally, this study provides a reference for accurately simulating large-scale industrial FAC systems and supports optimal decision-making for the design of sustainable kiwifruit cold chains. © 2024
[169] Li, Hengxiao,Qiao, Sibo .Bridging geological domain gaps in fluid classification using siamese networks and cross-domain adaptation[J].Physics of Fluids,2025,37 (3),AIP Publishing
摘要：Traditional fluid identification methods usually rely on labeled data, which is both scarce and expensive in real-world applications. One significant challenge in this regard is the difficulty of transferring fluid identification techniques across diverse geological environments. To address this issue, we propose a new fluid identification method that integrates siamese networks with cross-domain adaptation mechanisms (FCSCD). The primary objective of FCSCD is to bridge the data distribution gap between different geological domains, thereby improving fluid identification efficiency. By harnessing the contrastive learning power of siamese networks, FCSCD promotes the transfer of knowledge between source and target domains by measuring feature similarities across these geological settings. Furthermore, the adoption of cross-domain adaptation mechanisms ensures that the distribution differences of fluid categories are aligned, which ultimately improves classification accuracy. This method proves particularly effective for fluid identification tasks in complex reservoirs, where substantial geological variations between regions pose significant challenges for traditional models. Experimental results from a typical well dataset in the Tarim Oilfield show that the FCSCD model outperforms traditional approaches by a large margin. Comparative experiments also highlight the exceptional adaptability and robustness of FCSCD in managing fluid boundary complexities and addressing shifts in feature distributions across geological domains.
[170] Xiao Chen,Xianfeng Zhang,Miao Ren ,等.A multiscale enhanced pavement crack segmentation network coupling spectral and spatial information of UAV hyperspectral imagery[J].International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation,2024,128 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Road pavement cracks are a critical factor affecting the health conditions of road pavements. Accurate crack detection contributes to providing data support for road maintenance measures. Compared to conventional crack detection algorithms, deep learning based crack segmentation methods have practical significance for road maintenance and traffic safety management due to their high precision and automation. However, existing deep learning methods often suffer from segmentation accuracy loss due to the varying crack sizes and the presence of stains on the pavement with spatial characteristics similar to cracks, leading to the misclassification of cracks. Therefore, this study proposed a multiscale enhanced road pavement crack segmentation network (MS-CrackSeg) by coupling spectral and spatial information to detect pavement cracks from unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) hyperspectral imagery. MS-CrackSeg can simultaneously learn the spatial and rich spectral features of cracks in the hyperspectral imagery, improving the discrimination of those targets with similar spatial features to cracks compared to previous approaches. Moreover, the Multiscale Self-Attention-like Feature Extraction Module (MSSA) is introduced to extract and fuse multiscale crack features to enhance the crack detection. Experiments on a dataset consisting of 1031 hyperspectral images demonstrated the superior crack segmentation of the proposed method compared to the comparative methods. In particular, the proposed method achieved the highest F1-score of 0.74 and mean Intersection over Union of 0.79, indicating an exceptional performance. The developed approach offers improved data support for road maintenance measures and has validated the advantages of UAV hyperspectral imagery in road crack segmentation. The annotated hyperspectral dataset and the code for MS-CrackSeg network are available at https://***/williamchen-x/MS-CrackSeg. © 2024 The Authors
[171] Jaemin Na,Heechul Jung,Hyung Jin Chang ,等.Bridging domain spaces for unsupervised domain adaptation[J].Pattern Recognition,2025,164 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (UDA) aims to transfer knowledge obtained from a labeled source domain to an unlabeled target domain, facing challenges due to domain shift—significant discrepancies in data distribution that impair model performance when applied to unseen domains. While recent approaches have achieved remarkable progress in mitigating these domain shifts, the focus remains on direct adaptation strategies from source to target domains. However, when the gap between the source and target domains is too substantial, directly aligning their distributions becomes increasingly difficult. Pseudo-labeling, a common strategy in direct adaptation, can further exacerbate this issue when the domain shift is severe. In such cases, incorrect pseudo-labels are likely to propagate through the adaptation process, leading to degraded performance and unstable training. Effective adaptation thus requires methods that can address these challenges by improving the reliability of pseudo-labels or reducing dependency on them. To address this challenge, we propose a novel approach that effectively alleviates domain shift by leveraging intermediate domains as bridges between the source and target domains. Specifically, we introduce a fixed ratio-based mixup to generate distinct intermediate domains between the source and target domains. By training on these augmented domains, we construct source-dominant and target-dominant models that possess distinct strengths and weaknesses, enabling us to implement effective complementary learning strategies. Furthermore, we enhance our fixed ratio-based mixup with uncertainty-aware learning, which addresses not only the image-level space but also the feature space, aiming to reduce the uncertainty at the most critical points within these spaces. Finally, we integrate confidence-based learning strategies, including bidirectional matching with high-confidence predictions and self-penalization with low-confidence predictions. Our extensive e
[172] Longli Ran,Jiaming Li,Haodong Wu ,等.Bridging optical and SAR images via semantic prompt-guided progressive alignment for rotated cross-domain ship detection[J].International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation,2026,146 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Ship detection in remote sensing imagery is essential for diverse maritime-related tasks, including ocean surveillance, fisheries management, and environmental assessment. In operational scenarios, optical imagery provides rich texture cues under clear conditions, whereas synthetic aperture radar (SAR) enables reliable observation in nighttime and cloudy weather. However, cross-domain ship detection across optical and SAR modalities is still challenging due to discrepancies in imaging mechanisms, speckle noise, and background clutter, particularly in near-shore scenarios with similar reflection characteristics, together with the arbitrariness of ship orientation. To address these issues, we propose RotCD-Ship, a rotated cross-domain ship detection framework that bridges the domain gap between optical and SAR images while enabling accurate detection of arbitrarily oriented ships. Specifically, a domain knowledge-guided semantic prompt (DKSP) strategy based on SAR physical priors is introduced to suppress background clutter such as ship wakes and coastal interference. To handle modal divergence, we design a progressive feature alignment scheme that combines multi-scale local feature alignment (MSL-align) and global feature alignment (GF-align), enabling transfer of both fine-grained textures and high-level semantics across domains. Furthermore, a coarse-to-fine rotated region of interest (CF-RRoI) generator is developed to enhance localization precision of strip-like ships in SAR images by progressively refining orientation-aware proposals. Extensive evaluations on five public ship detection datasets show that RotCD-Ship significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods in both accuracy and robustness, achieving an average mAP improvement of 7.5% in the horizontal ship detection task and 5.5% in the oriented ship detection task compared to the best existing methods. In addition, large-scale tests on Gaofen-3 SAR images further verify the strong generalization in dens
[173] Liu, Lantian,Gao, Yunyuan,Meng, Ming ,等.Analysis of Multiscale Corticomuscular Coupling Networks Based on Ordinal Patterns[J].IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering,2024,32 :1045-1054,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：The coupled analysis of corticomuscular function based on physiological electrical signals can identify differences in causal relationships between electroencephalogram (EEG) and surface electromyogram (sEMG) in different motor states. The existing methods are mainly devoted to the analysis in the same frequency band, while ignoring the cross-band coupling, which plays an active role in motion control. Considering the inherent multiscale characteristics of physiological signals, a method combining Ordinal Partition Transition Networks (OPTNs) and Multivariate Variational Modal Decomposition (MVMD) was proposed in this paper. The EEG and sEMG were firstly decomposed on a time-frequency scale using MVMD, and then the coupling strength was calculated by the OPTNs to construct a corticomuscular coupling network, which was analyzed with complex network parameters. Experimental data were obtained from a self-acquired dataset consisting of EEG and sEMG of 16 healthy subjects at different sizes of constant grip force. The results showed that the method was superior in representing changes in the causal link among multichannel signals characterized by different frequency bands and grip strength patterns. Complex information transfer between the cerebral cortex and the corresponding muscle groups during constant grip force output from the human upper limb. Furthermore, the sEMG of the flexor digitorum superficialis (FDS) in the low frequency band is the hub in the effective information transmission between the cortex and the muscle, while the importance of each frequency component in this transmission network becomes more dispersed as the grip strength grows, and the increase in coupling strength and node status is mainly in the gamma band (30 similar to 60Hz). This study provides new ideas for deconstructing the mechanisms of neural control of muscle movements.
[174] Gong, Luqi,Bai, Rui,Li, Yilang ,等.Bridging HSI and LiDAR Data With Frequency-Domain Hierarchical Fusion for Enhanced Classification[J].IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing,2025,63 ,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Remote sensing data from hyperspectral imaging (HSI) and light detection and ranging (LiDAR) provide complementary perspectives for terrain and object analysis. However, existing methods for multimodal data fusion primarily focus on spatial-domain feature alignment, often overlooking the potential of frequency-domain information to enhance classification accuracy. To bridge this gap, we introduce the frequency-domain hierarchical perception fusion network (FHPF-Net), a novel framework for precise classification of remote sensing images. This network leverages both spatial-domain information and frequency-domain information and provides a new perspective for heterogeneous data integration. To extract and utilize frequency-domain features, we propose the high-to-low spectral separation and mining (HLSSM) module, which isolates high-frequency details such as edges and textures from low-frequency structural patterns in HSI and LiDAR data. This separation facilitates targeted feature extraction (FE) while preserving crucial contextual information. Additionally, we introduce the hierarchical superimposed multidomain information fusion (HSMIF) module, which employs a multilevel fusion strategy to integrate spatial- and frequency-domain features, ensuring consistency and complementarity between the two data sources. Finally, we introduce a learnable voting pre-label fusion (LVPF) strategy to effectively integrate multibranch outputs, enhancing classification performance and model robustness. The proposed FHPF-Net effectively captures diverse responses across heterogeneous data types, enabling robust classification in complex environments. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods.
[175] Nurakhov, Yedil,Kassymbek, Nurislam,Marlambekov, Duman ,等.Bridging the Semantic Gap in 5G: A Hybrid RAG Framework for Dual-Domain Understanding of O-RAN Standards and srsRAN Implementation[J].Applied Sciences,2026,16 (7),MDPI
摘要：The rapid evolution of the Open Radio Access Network (O-RAN) architecture and the exponential growth in specification complexity create significant barriers for researchers translating 5G standards into practical implementations. Existing evaluation frameworks for large language models, such as ORAN-Bench-13K, focus predominantly on the theoretical comprehension of regulatory documents while neglecting the critical aspect of software execution. This disparity results in a profound semantic gap, defined here as the structural and conceptual misalignment between abstract normative requirements and their concrete realization in the source code of open platforms like srsRAN. To bridge this divide and enable advanced cognitive reasoning, this paper presents a Hybrid Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) framework designed to unify two heterogeneous knowledge domains: the O-RAN/3GPP specification corpus and the srsRAN C++ codebase. The proposed architecture leverages a hierarchical Parent-Child Chunking strategy to preserve the structural integrity of complex code and normative protocols. Additionally, it introduces a probabilistic Semantic Query Routing mechanism that dynamically selects the relevant context domain based on query intent. This routing actively mitigates semantic interference-a phenomenon where merging conflicting cross-domain terminology introduces informational noise, which our baseline tests showed degrades response accuracy by 4.7%. Empirical evaluation demonstrates that the hybrid approach successfully overcomes this, achieving an overall accuracy of 76.70% and outperforming the standard RAG baseline of 72.00%. Furthermore, system performance analysis reveals that effective context filtering reduces the average response generation latency to 3.47 s, compared to 3.73 s for traditional RAG methods, rendering the framework highly suitable for real-time telecommunications engineering tasks.
[176] Grm, Klemen,Ozata, Berk Kemal,Kantarci, Alperen ,等.Degrade or Super-Resolve to Recognize? Bridging the Domain Gap for Cross-Resolution Face Recognition[J].IEEE Access,2025,13 :10542-10558,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：In this work, we address the problem of cross-resolution face recognition, where a low-resolution probe face is compared against high-resolution gallery faces. To address this challenging problem, we investigate two approaches for bridging the quality gap between low-quality probe faces and high-quality gallery faces. The first approach focuses on degrading the quality of high-resolution gallery images to bring them closer to the quality of the probe images. The second approach involves enhancing the resolution of the probe images using face hallucination. Our experiments on the SCFace and DroneSURF datasets reveal that the success of face hallucination is highly dependent on the quality of the original images, since poor image quality can severely limit the effectiveness of the hallucination technique. Therefore, the selection of the appropriate face recognition method should consider the quality of the images. Additionally, our experiments also suggest that combining gallery degradation and face hallucination in a hybrid recognition scheme provides the best overall results for cross-resolution face recognition with relatively high-quality probe images, while the degradation process on its own is the more suitable option for low-quality probe images. Our results show that the combination of standard computer vision approaches such as degradation, super-resolution, feature fusion, and score fusion can be used to substantially improve performance on the task of low resolution face recognition using off-the-shelf face recognition models without re-training on the target domain.
[177] Iman Nabipour,Amir Raoof,Veerle Cnudde ,等.A computationally efficient modeling of flow in complex porous media by coupling multiscale digital rock physics and deep learning: Improving the tradeoff between resolution and field-of-view[J].Advances in Water Resources,2024,188 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Digital rock physics is at the forefront of characterizing porous media, leveraging advanced tomographic imaging and numerical simulations to extract key rock properties like permeability. However, fully capturing the heterogeneity of natural rocks necessitates imaging increasingly larger sample volumes, presenting a significant challenge. Direct numerical simulations at these scales become either prohibitively expensive or computationally unfeasible due to limitations in resolution and field of view (FOV). This issue is particularly pronounced in carbonate rocks, known for their complex, multiscale pore structures, which exacerbate the resolution-FOV tradeoff. To address this, we introduce a machine learning strategy that merges multiscale imaging data from various resolutions with a 3D convolutional neural network (CNN) model. This approach is innovative in its ability to identify cross-scale correlations, thereby enabling the estimation of transport properties in larger volumes—properties that are difficult to simulate directly—using trainable proxies. The integration of multiscale imaging with deep learning allows for accurate permeability predictions at scales beyond those feasible with traditional direct simulation methods. By employing transfer learning across different scales during the training phase, our multiscale machine learning model achieves robust performance, with an R² exceeding 0.96 when evaluated on diverse lower-resolution domains with larger FOVs. Notably, this method significantly enhances computational efficiency, reducing the computational time by orders of magnitude. Originally developed for the intricate pore structures of carbonate rocks, our approach shows promise for application to a wide range of multiscale porous media, offering a viable solution to the longstanding tradeoff between imaging resolution and FOV in digital rock physics. © 2024 The Author(s)
[178] Horvath, Krisztian .Bridging Diagnostic Condition Monitoring and NVH Tonal Excitation Through Frequency-Domain Structural Mapping[J].Applied Sciences,2026,16 (8),MDPI
摘要：Featured Application The mapping methodology presented in this manuscript can aid in the vibration-based assessment of tonal excitation-related response in powertrain systems, providing a structural link between diagnostic monitoring and NVH assessment *** In general, condition monitoring (CM) and noise, vibration and harshness (NVH) are often treated as separate disciplines, despite the fact that both rely on vibration measurements. CM relies on broadband statistical metrics such as RMS, kurtosis, and envelope analysis to detect faults. Meanwhile, NVH investigates tonal excitation mechanisms related to gear mesh frequency (GMF) and its modulation components. In this study, we investigate whether a numerical relationship can be established between classical CM indicators and physically based tonal excitation indicators derived from frequency-domain analysis. Using healthy and damaged benchmark gearbox recordings, Spearman correlation analysis was performed between broadband metrics and GMF-related tonal features, including GMF-band energy and absolute sideband energy. Results show moderate but statistically significant correlations between RMS, envelope peak amplitude, and tonal indicators, whereas kurtosis exhibits no meaningful association. Additionally, tonal response amplification in the damaged gearbox is shown to be non-uniformly distributed across sensor locations, indicating sensor-dependent structural sensitivity rather than uniform response growth. These findings demonstrate that broadband CM indicators partially encode changes in tonal excitation-related response, establishing a reproducible data-driven bridge between diagnostic condition monitoring and NVH excitation analysis.
[179] Khakpour, Niloufar,Kumar, Dabasish Saha,Tsoukias, Nikolaos .Multiscale modeling of electromechanical coupling and hemodynamics in the cerebral microcirculation: Role of capillary pericytes in blood flow regulation[M].PHYSIOLOGY,2025,40 ,AMER PHYSIOLOGICAL SOC
[180] Li, Jingyao,Chen, Pengguang,Ju, Xuan ,等.VLPose: Bridging the Domain Gap in Pose Estimation With Language-Vision Tuning[J].IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence,2025,47 (11):10836-10847,IEEE COMPUTER SOC
摘要：Thanks to advances in deep learning techniques, Human Pose Estimation (HPE) has achieved significant progress in natural scenarios. However, these models perform poorly in artificial scenarios such as painting and sculpture due to the domain gap, constraining the development of virtual reality and augmented reality. With the growth of model size, retraining the whole model on both natural and artificial data is computationally expensive and inefficient. Our research aims to bridge the domain gap between natural and artificial scenarios with efficient tuning strategies. Leveraging the potential of language models, we enhance the adaptability of traditional pose estimation models across diverse scenarios with a novel framework called VLPose. VLPose leverages the synergy between language and vision to extend the generalization and robustness of pose estimation models beyond the traditional domains. Our approach has demonstrated improvements of 2.26% and 3.74% on HumanArt and MSCOCO, respectively, compared to state-of-the-art tuning strategies.
[181] Xu, Ronghui,Miao, Hao,Wang, Senzhang ,等.Bridging Cross-Domain Time Series: Efficient Federated Anomaly Detection With Sharded LLMs[J].IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering,2026,38 (6):3416-3429,IEEE COMPUTER SOC
摘要：Time series anomaly detection aims to identify samples that deviate from a normal distribution in a time series, which is practically important to a variety of real-world applications. Existing approaches are mostly centralized and domain-specific, and thus they are hard to generalize to time series of different domains that are decentralized due to the privacy concerns and the resulting data silos across institutions. To bridge this gap, we propose FAST-MAD, the first resource-aware framework for efficient federated time series anomaly detection. Operating under a client-server architecture, different clients in FAST-MAD can handle time series from distinct domains. In particular, FAST-MAD first employs a multi-resolution transformation module to capture hierarchical local semantics, frequency-oriented patching as well as inter-time-series interaction. An LLM serves as the main body of the local model for each client, owing to its strong knowledge transfer capabilities. Further, an adaptive modularized separation mechanism is integrated with sharded federated training to reduce computational costs, which innovatively splits the LLM into a U-shaped architecture. To address data heterogeneity across different clients, we propose a decomposed client-server alignment mechanism, featuring a tailored low-rank parameter decomposition that extracts domain-common knowledge. Extensive experiments on multiple cross-domain time series datasets offer insight into the effectiveness and efficiency of FAST-MAD, which outperforms SOTA baselines by up to 10.25% in terms of F1-score and reduces the training time by 40.93%.
[182] Aryan Kheyabani,Hafiz Qasim Ali,Adnan Kefal ,等.Coupling of isogeometric higher-order RZT and parametric HFGMC frameworks for multiscale modeling of sandwich laminates: Theory and experimental validation[J].Aerospace Science and Technology,2024,146 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A novel isogeometric plate formulation based on {3,2}-order refined zigzag theory (RZT) is developed and coupled with the parametric high fidelity generalized method of cells (HFGMC) to perform multiscale structural analysis on sandwich structures. The HFGMC model enables the prediction of all material constants for the face sheets in sandwich laminate directly from fiber and matrix constituents, eliminating the need for standard mechanical tests. Moreover, the higher-order RZT formulation includes thickness-stretch effects in kinematic variables and generates all three-dimensional stress components, facilitating the direct transfer of stiffness matrices from the micro to macro levels, thus serving as a consistent multiscale framework. Besides, the high computational efficiency of the multiscale model is ensured by leveraging isogeometric analysis for interpolating the kinematic variables of RZT. Experimental studies are performed on uniaxial and cross-ply sandwich laminates for verification of the developed multiscale approach where a universal testing machine (UTM), strain gauges, acoustic emission (AE) sensors, and digital image correlation (DIC) technique are used for data collection. UTM and strain gauges are used to generate stress-strain curves whereas AE ensures the linear-elastic region of the testing, and DIC reveals the full-field experimental deformations. Comparing numerical and experimental results, higher accuracy and superior capabilities of the present multiscale model are revealed as compared to the linear RZT, shear deformation theory, where three-dimensional reference numerical solutions support the results of the present model. Overall, it is numerically and experimentally confirmed that the current methodology can serve as a generalized consistent multiscale analysis technique for modeling sandwich structures. © 2024 Elsevier Masson SAS
[183] Kumar, Sumit,Jadav, Kalpesh .Bridging the Domain Gap in Remote Sensing: A Comparative Study of Deep CORAL, DAN, and DANN on Multi-Sensor Aerial Image Datasets[M].AIP Conference Proceedings,2026,3475 (1),American Institute of Physics
摘要：Domain adaptation (DA) is essential in remote sensing image analysis, where models frequently encounter substantial performance drops due to domain shift—a result of distributional discrepancies across datasets sourced from heterogeneous sensors, platforms, and imaging conditions. This comparative study evaluates three leading unsupervised DA algorithms—Deep CORAL, Domain Adaptation Network (DAN), and Domain-Adversarial Neural Network (DANN)—on four major aerial image benchmarks, each presenting unique sensor characteristics. Six semantically aligned scene classes are selected to facilitate a rigorous assessment of how each technique manages sensor-induced and platform-driven variability. Through extensive experimentation and interpretability analyses, we quantify strengths and limitations of each approach, aiming to offer clear guidelines for DA algorithm selection in practical, sensor-diverse remote sensing tasks. © 2026 Author(s)
[184] Chen, Hengyu,Wang, Baoliang,Dou, Zhongsi .Multiscale Analysis and Preventive Measures for Slope Stability in Open-Pit Mines Using a Multimethod Coupling Approach[J].Applied Sciences,2025,15 (19),MDPI
摘要：This study investigates slope stability in an open-pit mining area by integrating engineering geological surveys, field investigations, and laboratory rock mechanics tests. A coordinated multimethod analysis was carried out using finite element-based numerical simulations from both two-dimensional and three-dimensional perspectives. The integrated approach revealed deformation patterns across the slopes and established a multiscale analytical framework. The results indicate that the slope failure modes primarily include circular and compound types, with existing step slopes showing a potential risk of wedge failure. While the designed slope meets safety requirements under three working conditions overall, the strongly weathered layer in profile XL3 requires a slope angle reduction from 38 degrees to 37 degrees to comply with standards. Three-dimensional simulations identify the main deformations in the middle-lower sections of the western area and zones B and C, with faults located at the core of the deformation zone. Rainfall and blasting vibrations significantly increase surface tensile stress, accelerating deformation. Although wedges in profiles XL1 and XL4 remain generally stable, coupled blasting-rainfall effects may still induce potential collapse in fractured areas, necessitating preventive measures such as concrete support and bolt support, along with real-time monitoring to dynamically optimize reinforcement strategies for precise risk control.
[185] Yang, Liuhua,Liu, Haikun,Li, Zhenhua ,等.Coupling mass transfer and chemisorption for efficient CO2 sequestration in tailings-based materials: The role of multiscale porosity[J].Chemical Engineering Journal,2026,539 ,ELSEVIER SCIENCE SA
摘要：Mineral carbonation of mine tailings represents a promising pathway for large-scale CO2 utilization, yet diffusion limitations within cementitious matrices often hinder capture efficiency. This study develops a hierarchical porous paste backfill utilizing molybdenum tailings and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) to optimize the trade-off between gas permeability and adsorption capacity. We investigated the regulatory mechanism of pore architecture on CO2 uptake through multiscale characterization (NMR, BET, XRD) and kinetic modeling. The results demonstrate that an optimal SDS dosage of 0.2 wt% generates a balanced micro-meso-macro pore network, increasing the BET surface area to 60.857 m2/g and enhancing gas permeability from 0.035 mD to 0.368 mD. This optimized architecture facilitated a 53% increase in CO2 capture capacity (reaching 3.64%), dominated by coupled chemisorption and mineralization kinetics. Crucially, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) analyses reveal that in-situ formed CaCO3 provides secondary pore filling, allowing the carbonated material to maintain a robust 28-day compressive strength of 2.8 MPa. Furthermore, life cycle assessment (LCA) indicates that porosity optimization shifts the system from a carbon source (85.8 kg) to a carbon sink (-5.36 kg). These findings provide mechanistic insights into designing carbon-negative backfill materials, validating the potential of pore engineering to enhance CO2 utilization in the mining sector.
[186] Mi, Lihua,Li, Bo,Chen, Hui ,等.Multiscale coupling wake simulations for a horizontal-axis wind turbine mounted in complex terrains[J].Energy Sources, Part A: Recovery, Utilization, and Environmental Effects,2025,47 (1):1817-1835,TAYLOR & FRANCIS INC
摘要：Investigating wake characteristics for wind turbines situated in complex terrains holds substantial importance for the sustainable advancement of wind energy. In this study, a multiscale simulation framework is established for wake simulations, combining the mesoscale WRF and microscale LES, which incorporates turbulent inflow. The findings reveal that inlet turbulence accelerates the recovery process of the wake, particularly at a distance of 10D downstream from the turbine, where the wake deficit area influenced by inlet turbulence is notably smaller than that affected by the terrain. Moreover, neither inlet turbulence nor terrain conditions alter the wake's mean velocity, but they elevate the turbulence intensity (TI) values in the turbine's near-wake region. Specifically, in the absence of inlet turbulence, the wake turbulence intensity remains at approximately 2% within the 2D to 4D downstream range. The wake TI is significantly higher when inlet turbulence is considered, with a maximum value of 16%. Finally, the power increases by approximately 5.90% with terrain conditions, decreasing by about 13.69% with inlet turbulence. These results indicate that terrain conditions enhance turbine power generation, whereas inlet turbulence significantly reduces it. This high-fidelity numerical framework holds promise as an effective instrument for wind farm siting.
[187] Irina, Brodskaia,Elena, Tutubalina,Oleg, Somov .Bridging the Gap with RedSQL: A Russian Text-to-SQL Benchmark for Domain-Specific Applications[M],2025,ASSOC COMPUTATIONAL LINGUISTICS-ACL
摘要：We present the first domain-specific text-to-SQL benchmark in Russian, targeting fields with high operational load where rapid decision-making is critical. The benchmark spans across 9 domains, including healthcare, aviation, and others, and comprises 409 curated query pairs. It is designed to test model generalization under domain shift, introducing challenges such as specialized terminology and complex schema structures. Evaluation of stateof-the-art large language models (LLM) reveals significant performance drop in comparison to open-domain academic benchmarks, highlighting the need for domain-aware approaches in text-to-SQL. The benchmark is available at: https://***/BrodskaiaIrina/ functional-text2sql-subsets
[188] Zhifan Ye,Jin Zhao,Dongsheng Wen .Multiscale coupling simulation of surface catalytic effect on hypersonic aerothermodynamic environment[J].International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer,2024,222 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The complicated heat and mass transfer at the high-temperature gas-solid interface of a thermal protection material under highly non-equilibrium conditions is of high importance to hypersonic flows. Surface catalysis, an exothermic reaction that refers to the recombination of dissociated atoms at the surface, and its effect on the aerothermodynamic environment has been investigated by researchers, especially focusing on oxygen recombination process. To further identify the nitrogen recombination mechanism, a hybrid CFD-RMD multiscale simulation method is employed in this work to qualitatively investigate its effect on aerothermodynamic environment prediction under hyperthermal non-equilibrium condition. Taking carbon-based phenolic resin (PR) composite as a typical material with 300 K, the nitrogen recombination coefficient obtained from atomistic-scale RMD simulation is coupled with the continuum two-temperature Navier-Stokes model to capture the catalytic effects and the heat / mass transfer at high temperature: A catalytic benchmark simulation is conducted under a Mach number of 9.7, and the heat flux distribution along the surface coupled with the RMD-derived nitrogen recombination coefficient of 0.0704 is obtained, which result is comparable with the published wind tunnel experimental data and the finite-rate catalytic result is 10 %∼30 % lower than the fully catalytic assumption result. The nitrogen recombination coefficient of PR is theoretically found to increase with thermal dissociation fraction of the free stream and decrease with the wall temperature due to the catalysis-ablation competitive mechanism. The influence of the recombination coefficient on the heat transfer at the surface is also quantitatively analyzed for evaluating the surface catalysis effect on aerothermodynamic heating. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[189] Lu, Ziji,Zheng, Ligang,Gao, Chong-zhi ,等.Bridging Domain Shifts with 1-5 Shots: Unified Elastic Prototype-Contrastive Learning for Source-Free Hashing Adaptation[M].PATTERN RECOGNITION AND COMPUTER VISION, PRCV 2025, PT I,2026,16272 :335-350,SPRINGER-VERLAG SINGAPORE PTE LTD
摘要：Source-free domain adaptive hashing enables cross-domain image retrieval without accessing source data. However, its reliance on extensive, costly target-domain annotations remains a major barrier. Addressing this limitation, we introduce the first framework uniting source-free and few-shot (1-5 shots) paradigms: Unified Elastic Prototype Contrastive Learning for domain-adaptive hashing (UEPCL). UEPCL achieves robust cross-domain retrieval with only minimal target supervision (1-5 images/class) and zero source data via three innovations: (1) Prototype-guided alignment constructs discriminative class prototypes from sparse targets to enforce intra-class compactness;(2) Contrastive hashing alignment maximizes inter-class separation while preserving semantic consistency;(3) Elastic knowledge distillation dynamically transfers source knowledge through probability matching, preventing catastrophic forgetting. Extensive experiments on benchmarks demonstrate UEPCL's supremacy: it outperforms state-of-the-art methods by 2.34 to 8.70% mAP, 8.45% Top-50 precision and 12.11% Top-50 recall on average. This establishes a new frontier for efficient, privacy-compliant cross-domain retrieval. The code supporting this work will be made available at https://***/Luziji308/UEPCL.
[190] Alsarraj, Rasha Gh,Altaie, Atica M.,Ahmed, Abdullah Hani .Bridging models and code: A visual tool to domain model transformation based on low code concept[M].AIP Conference Proceedings,2026,3393 (1),American Institute of Physics
摘要：Within the rapid change of software engineering field, a key challenge is the translation of the high -level models to executable codes. The present study introduces "Bridging Models and Code,"which is a new visual tool that has been designed for automatically converting the class domain models to structured and executable codes in Java, C#, and Python programming languages. Utilizing the principles of MDD (i.e., model-driven development), the tool can take structural as well as behavioral information the from class models then it creates well-organized code skeletons, including class definitions, methods, relationships, and variables. Those skeletons provide the developers with some strong starting point for the further customization in order to meet some particular needs of the project. Through the automation of this code generation part, the tool is helpful in speeding up the early stages of development, promoting consistency across a variety of the programming languages, and reducing the manual work that is involved usually in the turning of the models to software architecture. The present study provides an evaluation of the performance of the tool through the comparison of the outputs from a variety of the domain models in the 3 languages, focusing upon how well it can maintain the structure as well as the adaptability. Results have shown that the tool can be effective in the addressing of the challenges in the generation of the multi-language codes, preserving the accuracy of the design, and reducing the likelihood of the errors that can often happen with the manual coding. © 2026 Author(s).
[191] Lihong Huang,Jin Zhou,Jing Jiao ,等.Standardization of ultrasound images across various centers: M2O-DiffGAN bridging the gaps among unpaired multi-domain ultrasound images[J].Medical Image Analysis,2024,95 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Domain shift problem is commonplace for ultrasound image analysis due to difference imaging setting and diverse medical centers, which lead to poor generalizability of deep learning-based methods. Multi-Source Domain Transformation (MSDT) provides a promising way to tackle the performance degeneration caused by the domain shift, which is more practical and challenging compared to conventional single-source transformation tasks. An effective unsupervised domain combination strategy is highly required to handle multiple domains without annotations. Fidelity and quality of generated images are also important to ensure the accuracy of computer-aided diagnosis. However, existing MSDT approaches underperform in above two areas. In this paper, an efficient domain transformation model named M2O-DiffGAN is introduced to achieve a unified mapping from multiple unlabeled source domains to the target domain. A cycle-consistent "many-to-one" adversarial learning architecture is introduced to model various unlabeled domains jointly. A condition adversarial diffusion process is employed to generate images with high-fidelity, combining an adversarial projector to capture reverse transition probabilities over large step sizes for accelerating sampling. Considering the limited perceptual information of ultrasound images, an ultrasound-specific content loss helps to capture more perceptual features for synthesizing high-quality ultrasound images. Massive comparisons on six clinical datasets covering thyroid, carotid and breast demonstrate the superiority of the M2O-DiffGAN in the performance of bridging the domain gaps and enlarging the generalization of downstream analysis methods compared to state-of-the-art algorithms. It improves the mean MI, Bhattacharyya Coefficient, dice and IoU assessments by 0.390, 0.120, 0.245 and 0.250, presenting promising clinical applications.
[192] Hu, Haibin,Wu, Yongchuang,Yang, Hui ,等.A cross-domain crop recognition method for bridging distribution discrepancies in remote sensing data[M].SIXTH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON GEOSCIENCE AND REMOTE SENSING MAPPING, GRSM 2024, PT 1,2025,13506 ,SPIE-INT SOC OPTICAL ENGINEERING
摘要：To address the challenges of distribution discrepancies in remote sensing data across different regions and temporal contexts, this study introduces a novel cross-domain crop recognition method. The proposed approach aims to bridge the distribution gap between source and target domain remote sensing images by optimizing the feature distributions of the source domain, aligning them more closely with the visual characteristics of the target domain. This process enhances the model's generalization capabilities across domains. The training process involves pre-training the model on source domain data, followed by fine-tuning with augmented source data to accommodate the distribution variations in the target domain. Experimental results show that this method significantly improves recognition accuracy and robustness in cross-domain crop identification tasks, offering an effective solution for advancing the application of remote sensing data in agricultural monitoring.
[193] Yan, Mengdi,Lin, Yuanwei,Zhang, Yang ,等.Multiscale Coupling of Boundary Layer Flow Turbulence and Sand Streamer Dynamics[J].Geophysical Research Letters,2026,53 (9),AMER GEOPHYSICAL UNION
摘要：Wind-driven sand transport at the Earth's surface exhibits pronounced spatiotemporal variability, forming elongated sand streamers that critically control sand flux. Despite their importance, the detailed fundamental mechanisms governing streamer formation remain elusive. This study presents results from a novel image-processing algorithm analyzing high-resolution video imagery combined with 3D wind measurement in turbulent boundary layer flow over a sandy beach. Streamers are shown to align with high-momentum pathways modulated by large-scale turbulence structures, and sand flux inside streamers scales with flow forcing. Streamer width remains invariant and decoupled from flow forcing, whereas streamer spacing increases with wind speed. These results support a top-down modulation mechanism where the invariant streamer width is likely governed by the height of the turbulent footprint, whereas the increased spacing may relate to spanwise dilation of vortex scales or a near-surface momentum feedback mediated by the saltating sand.
[194] Xiaoyan Liu,Yao Chen,Chen Hang ,等.Coupling Nanoscale Precision with Multiscale Imaging: A Multifunctional Near-Infrared Dye for the Brain[J].ACS Nano,2024,18 (33):22233-22244,American Chemical Society
摘要：Live imaging of primary neural cells is crucial for monitoring neuronal activity, especially multiscale and multifunctional imaging that offers excellent biocompatibility. Multiscale imaging can provide insights into cellular structure and function from the nanoscale to the millimeter scale. Multifunctional imaging can monitor different activities in the brain. However, this remains a challenge because of the lack of dyes with a high signal-to-background ratio, water solubility, and multiscale and multifunctional imaging capabilities. In this study, we present a neural dye with near-infrared (NIR) emissions (>700 nm) that enables ultrafast staining (in less than 1 min) for the imaging of primary neurons. This dye not only enables multiscale neural live-cell imaging from vesicles in neurites, neural membranes, and single neurons to the whole brain but also facilitates multifunctional imaging, such as the monitoring and quantifying of synaptic vesicles and the changes in membrane potential. We also explore the potential of this NIR neural dye for staining brain slices and live brains. The NIR neural dye exhibits superior binding with neural membranes compared to commercial dyes, thereby achieving multiscale and multifunctional brain neuroimaging. In conclusion, our findings introduce a significant breakthrough in neuroimaging dyes by developing a category of small molecular dyes.
[195] Xinyue Li,Xiaolin Li,Hangran Yang .Multiscale Finite Element Method for Coupling Analysis of Heterogeneous Magneto-Electro-Elastic Structures in Thermal Environment[J].Journal of Applied Mathematics and Physics,2024,12 (9):3099-3113,Scientific Research Publishing
摘要：Magneto-electro-elastic (MEE) materials, a new type of composite intelligent materials, exhibit excellent multifield coupling effects. Due to the heterogeneity of the materials, it is challenging to use the traditional finite element method (FEM) for mechanical analysis. Additionally, the MEE materials are often in a complex service environment, especially under the influence of the thermal field with thermoelectric and thermomagnetic effects, which affect its mechanical properties. Therefore, this paper proposes the efficient multiscale computational method for the multifield coupling problem of heterogeneous MEE structures under the thermal environment. The method constructs a multi-physics field with numerical base functions (the displacement, electric potential, and magnetic potential multiscale base functions). It equates a single cell of heterogeneous MEE materials to a macroscopic unit and supplements the macroscopic model with a microscopic model. This allows the problem to be solved directly on a macroscopic scale. Finally, the numerical simulation results demonstrate that compared with the traditional FEM, the multiscale finite element method (MsFEM) can achieve the purpose of ensuring accuracy and reducing the degree of freedom, and significantly improving the calculation efficiency.
[196] Schijven, Marlies P.,Kikkawa, Toshiko .Bridging the Generational Gap in the Medical Domain Through Playful Interaction[J].Simulation & Gaming,2025,56 (2):151-154,SAGE PUBLICATIONS INC
[197] Sabrina C.Y. Ip,Ronaldo I. Borja .Hydromechanical coupling in unsaturated clayey rocks with double porosity based on a multiscale homogenization procedure[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,171 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Shales and clay rocks are porous media with multiscale microstructures used in many engineering applications. Intact clay rocks often exhibit a bimodal pore size distribution in which the nanopores are related to the interlayer spacing in the clay platelet and the micropores are related to the interparticle pores between clay particles. The double-porosity microstructure has significant implications for the hydromechanical behavior of these rocks especially in unsaturated conditions. In this study, we develop a double-porosity hydromechanical framework incorporating a homogenization scheme to simulate fluid flow and elastic deformation in anisotropic clay rocks. The homogenization scheme provides an enriched description of the elastic behavior of clay rocks during changes in the degree of saturation by bridging the nano, micro, and macroscale characterizations. We also model the nanopores and micropores as two independent pore networks with distinct fluid flow mechanisms and permeabilities. The proposed framework is cast into a three-field mixed finite element formulation for solving fully coupled flow and deformation problems. Numerical examples of free and confined swelling in Opalinus clay samples are presented to demonstrate the impacts of a multiscale microstructure on wetting processes in clay rocks. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[198] Fan Wang,Zhongyi Han,Yilong Yin .BIAS: Bridging Inactive and Active Samples for active source free domain adaptation[J].Knowledge-Based Systems,2024,284 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：As a practical domain adaptation scenario for data protection, source free domain adaptation has suffered from a performance bottleneck. Active source free domain adaptation (ASFDA) could alleviate this problem by exploring a few actively labeled target samples. Due to active selection bias in ASFDA, the active samples are hard samples as they are challenging to recognize by the source model, and the inactive samples are composed of well-learned not-hard samples and unexplored mild-hard samples. Thus the distributions of inactive and active samples are usually different. We provide a rigorous theoretical analysis, revealing that reducing their distribution difference is critical for model generalization. However, the previous DA alignment methods cannot reduce such distribution discrepancy due to severe class imbalance and quantity imbalance between the inactive and active samples. In this work, we propose Bridging Inactive and Active Samples (BIAS) to implicitly align their distributions by utilizing their distribution characteristics. By constructing and learning the intermediate samples between the reliable not-hard and hard samples obtained by our novel reciprocal active selection, BIAS can effectively align the distributions of inactive and active samples and learn unexplored mild-hard samples thoroughly. Extensive experiments verify that BIAS can be integrated into existing ASFDA methods and improve their performance significantly, with over 4% accuracy improvements in some transfer tasks. © 2023 Elsevier B.V.
[199] Uitslag-Doolaard, H. J.,Zwijsen, K.,Roelofs, F. ,等.myMUSCLE, a New Multiphysics, Multiscale Simulation Coupling Environment[J].Nuclear Science and Engineering,2023,197 (10):2543-2560,TAYLOR & FRANCIS INC
摘要：Increasing the computational power enables the nuclear community to combine existing knowledge on the variety of different physical phenomena that take place in reactors and to develop tools that can simulate these combined, interacting phenomena simultaneously. This includes phenomena related to structural mechanics, fluid dynamics, and reactor physics among others. Coupling different codes developed specifically for the analysis of separate phenomenon is currently a topic high on the research and development agenda of the international *** on the experience of successfully computing the dissymmetric benchmark in the Phenix reactor by coupling the system thermal-hydraulic (STH) code SPECTRA to the computational fluid dynamics (CFD) code CFX in the H2020 SESAME project, the Nuclear Research and Consultancy Group (NRG) is currently developing the code-coupling tool myMUSCLE: MultiphYsics MUltiscale Simulation CoupLing Environment. MyMUSCLE is an independent, external, Fortran-based code that arranges the efficient and robust coupling of different codes. It aims at being flexible with respect to the codes being coupled, i.e., commercial and open-source codes, while having a single coupling tool that enhances quality assurance. It is currently set up to couple SPECTRA as a STH code to CFX, Fluent, STAR-CCM+, or OpenFOAM as a CFD code. This paper presents the proof of principle and first verification of the myMUSCLE tool under development by applying it to multiscale thermal-hydraulic ***, a flow through a pipe is modeled as proof of principle for explicit coupling at a single coupling interface. Second, in preparation for modeling liquid-metal-cooled fast reactors, a piping system with a pool with natural convection is modeled. The results of the multiscale calculations show good agreement among the different coupled CFD codes. Finally, the preparations for simulating the TALL-3D experiment, used for generating data for validation of simulati
[200] Zhang, Chengzhe,Min, Xu,Li, Changsheng ,等.MIBR: Bridging Domains through Diverse Interests for Cross-Domain Sequential Recommendation[M].2024 IEEE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON BIG DATA, BIGDATA,2024,IEEE COMPUTER SOC
摘要：Cross-Domain Sequential Recommendation (CDSR) aims to enhance personalized user experiences by leveraging user behaviors across multiple domains. Existing methods primarily focus on fusing information from various domains and modeling global user preferences, but often struggle with negative transfer, where knowledge from one domain impairs recommendation performance in another. For example, a user may enjoy watching sports games in the video domain but have no interest in participating in sports activities. Consequently, this interest does not extend to purchasing related sports gear. In such cases, a recommendation system suggesting sports gear based on the user's viewing preferences may not elicit a positive response. To tackle this issue, we propose a novel method called Multi-Interest Bridge Recommender (MIBR). In light of the cross-domain scenario, where user preferences are not entirely consistent across domains, we design a Multi-Interest Extraction (MIE) module to capture the diversity of user interests based on a soft clustering approach. In the meantime, we design a cross-domain bridging (CDB) module, with the goal of mitigating the issue of negative transfer. CDB leverages the extracted interests as a bridge for inter-domain information transfer, enabling each domain to adaptively extract relevant information from diverse interests while ignoring unrelated ones. Extensive experiments on three popular datasets reveal MIBR's significant superiority over baselines, e.g., with up to a 59.27% uplift in terms of HR@10 over (CDSR)-D-2 on the Movie-Book dataset.