[1] 邱胤原,林国靖,查云飞 ,等.考虑接触几何的三球销式等速万向节多维动力学特性研究[J].汽车工程,2025,47 (12):2431-2440
摘要：为探究接触对几何形状对三球销式等速万向节多维度动力学特性的影响,本文提出了一种考虑接触几何的动态行为分析方法。首先,基于共轭曲面原理,建立了球环-滚道副的接触几何模型,求解了二者间的约束关系;随后,基于ADAMS软件平台,建立了集成接触几何特性的多体动力学模型,并通过融合接触点自动检测算法与几何投影约束方程,提升了球环-滚道接触点位置的计算精度,以更精确地模拟二者间的接触力学特性。通过台架试验,验证模型的准确性。结果表明,球环与滚道间的接触压力角增至20°时,可在不增加万向节尺寸的前提下,降低约29%的轴向派生力,显著减少对汽车横向振动的激励。本文为解决三球销式等速万向节高NVH性与轻量化之间的矛盾提供了新思路。
[2] Jia Song,Chengshun Xu,Kemin Jia ,等.A frictional contact approach for saturated soil-structure dynamic interaction considering fluid-solid coupling and contact coupling effects[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2026,194 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The problem of dynamic soil-structure interaction in saturated soils involves two types of coupling effects: fluid–solid coupling and soil-structure contact coupling. Due to material discontinuity, the contact interface may exhibit nonlinear contact behaviors such as large frictional sliding and separation, as well as variable constraint conditions (e.g., the transition between permeable and impermeable boundary constraints when the frictional interface bonds or separates). Based on the u-p formulation for saturated two-phase media, this paper proposes a dynamic frictional contact model for saturated soil-structure systems that can characterize the “sticking-sliding-separation” states of the interface. The contact interface is discretized using node-to-segment (NTS) elements composed of “node-segment pairs”. Combined with the Mohr-Coulomb criterion and the effective stress, contact judgment conditions applicable to saturated soils are derived. A two-pass penalty method is adopted to deduce the contact algorithm from two aspects, namely displacement (contribution of the solid phase) and pore pressure (contribution of the liquid phase), and the contact control equations under different contact states are established. Meanwhile, the augmented Lagrangian regularization method is introduced to improve the penalty method and enhance computational stability. Finally, a series of numerical cases are conducted to validate the proposed contact model. The computed results exhibit excellent agreement with analytical solutions, existing numerical results, and experimental datasets, thereby verifying the proposed model’s robustness and reliability in simulating the frictional contact behavior of saturated soil and structures interaction.
[3] 高航舵,胡志强,尹昭 ,等.基于B可微方程组的弹塑性动力接触问题的研究[J].工程力学,2025,42 (2):24-32
摘要：该文基于B可微方程组法,提出了一种求解弹塑性动力摩擦接触问题的算法。将接触条件表示成B可微方程组的形式,可精确满足库仑-摩擦条件;将接触求解嵌套在本构方程的求解过程中,可有效减少接触柔度阵由于刚度阵的变化而引起的更新次数,从而节省计算时间;采用带一维Armijo型线搜索的阻尼Newton-Raphson法保证了接触方程在迭代过程中的数值收敛性。在算例部分,通过与基于增广拉格朗日算法的ANSYS的结果对比,验证了所提出算法的准确性,并利用一个工程实例验证了该方法的实用性与鲁棒性。
[4] Haoran Zhang,Jun Li,Hai Mei ,等.An improved point-to-surface contact algorithm with penalty method for peridynamics[J].International Journal of Mechanical Sciences,2026,313 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In Peridynamics (PD), it is challenging to identify surface particles and determine contact forces accurately for complex contact and collision problems. In the present study, we propose an improved point-to-surface contact algorithm with penalty function method for PD simulations. This contact algorithm enables the automatic identification of surface particles, which thus provides a straightforward and accurate estimation of contact forces. The algorithm first employs the eigenvalue method to detect external surface particles, followed by a global search using Verlet list to identify all potential contact particle pairs. Subsequently, a local point-to-surface search is then performed to determine exact contact locations, after which the contact forces are calculated via the penalty method. The accuracy and versatility of the algorithm are demonstrated through typical contact examples, including interactions between an elastic body and a rigid plane as well as between two elastic bodies, and high-velocity dynamic impacts, specifically penetration of a ceramic plate by a metallic projectile in frontal and edge-impact configurations. The simulations reproduce experimentally observed fracture characteristics, including central fragmentation, radial cracking, and circumferential fracture rings, as well as projectile damage and plastic deformation. Compared to other PD contact models, the calculated contact force exhibits better agreement with Hertz contact theory. This work provides a robust and accurate contact modeling framework for PD simulations, offering a reliable tool for investigating complex multi-body interactions, impact damage, and collision phenomena in practical engineering applications.
[5] Behzad Golanbari,Aref Mardani,Nashmil Farhdi ,等.Multi-objective optimization for balancing soil compaction and dynamic contact length in tire–soil interaction of off-road vehicles[J].Journal of Terramechanics,2026,123 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Considering the importance of soil compaction management for maintaining agricultural fertility and optimizing off-road vehicle performance, this study aimed to determine the relative contributions of key parameters and to identify an optimal combination of vertical load and number of passes that simultaneously minimizes soil normal stress and maximizes dynamic contact length in tire–soil interaction. Experiments were conducted in a soil bin using a single agricultural tire at three vertical loading levels and four traffic levels under constant speed conditions. Normal stress was measured using buried load cells, and dynamic contact length was calculated from the relationship between contact duration and wheel speed. Sensitivity analysis within the investigated experimental range indicated that dynamic contact length exerted the dominant influence on normal stress variation (71.17%), followed by vertical load (16.89%) and number of passes (11.40%). Multi-objective optimization based on the time-resolved contact–stress dataset identified that a vertical load of 2 kN at the third pass provided the most favorable trade-off, corresponding to a stress of 47.4 kPa and a dynamic contact length of 156.1 mm. These findings provide a quantitative framework for improving vehicle performance while mitigating soil compaction under controlled operating conditions.
[6] Wang, Chunfa,Li, Yudong,Li, Yan ,等.Coupling effect of large deformation and surface roughness on dynamic frictional contact behaviors of hyperelastic material[J].Computational Mechanics,2025,75 (2):455-473,SPRINGER
摘要：The energy is a crucial factor in dynamical contact analysis. And the complexity of real-world surface morphologies characterized by roughness, poses a considerable challenge for accurately predicting their dynamic contact behaviors. Hence, it is meaningful to explore the influence of surface roughness on energy dissipation. In this study, the two-dimensional geometry with randomly rough surface is reconstructed based on Karhunen-Lo & egrave;ve expansion and isogeometric collocation method. And a contact algorithm is tailored for dynamic frictional contact problems by incorporating the Bi-potential method into isogeometric analysis. Numerical results show that roughness factors such as the correlation length and square roughness of the randomly rough surface significantly affect the maximum ratio of real contact area to the normal contact area and the rate of energy dissipation. This work could provide a reference for future research on the dynamic contact between rough surfaces.
[7] Liu, Youyu,Wang, Qiang,Zhang, Jianwen ,等.Robot grinding and polishing path planning for free-form surfaces based on a dynamic tool-surface contact model[J].Journal of the Brazilian Society of Mechanical Sciences and Engineering,2026,48 (6):400-400,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：This paper addresses the nonlinear evolution of geometric contact patches caused by abrupt curvature changes and variations in tool posture during robotic grinding and polishing of curved surfaces, proposing a dynamic toolpath adjustment strategy based on tool-inclination contact theory. A dynamic contact model is established between the flexible polishing pad and the curved surface, accurately describing the evolution of the instantaneous contact shape with curvature, tool inclination, and feed direction. Based on this, an adaptive path-spacing planning algorithm constrained by real-time contact width is proposed. It dynamically adjusts the path spacing to effectively reduce trajectory overlap and shorten the overall path length while ensuring uniform machining coverage, thereby improving polishing efficiency and the consistency of path distribution based on geometric full coverage. Validated through a robot polishing application software system developed via secondary development in UG/NX, the proposed method reduces the total path length compared to traditional constant-spacing and variable-spacing plane-section methods under the same coverage level. This provides a feasible path generation solution for efficient and high-quality robotic grinding and polishing of large free-form surface components.
[8] Zhong, You,Yang, Siyun,Xue, Miao ,等.Dynamic modeling and response analysis of the pneumatic flexible airbag buffer system considering compliant contact[J].Meccanica,2026,61 (3):65-65,SPRINGER
摘要：Soft robotic grippers equipped with pneumatic airbags offer a promising solution for dynamic target capture by enabling compliant impact buffering and energy dissipation. However, the coupled mechanisms involving large geometric deformation, quasi-incompressible membrane behavior, internal gas dynamics, and nonlinear contact interactions remain insufficiently understood. This study proposes a multiphysics modeling framework for a pneumatic flexible airbag cushioning system considering compliant contact. The thin-walled airbag structure is discretized using triangular Absolute Nodal Coordinate Formulation (ANCF) membrane elements integrated with a stiffness reduction model to capture large deformation and wrinkling behavior. Internal gas dynamics are described using a control volume approach based on mass and energy conservation principles, while nonlinear normal contact forces are modeled using an improved Hertzian-based compliant contact formulation combined with a GGEOM contact detection algorithm. Impact experiments were conducted to validate the proposed model. The simulated contact force and kinetic energy evolution showed strong agreement with experimental measurements, achieving coefficients of determination of 0.927 and 0.971, respectively. Parametric analyses revealed that pressure relief and the exhaust rate act as dominant regulatory factors governing equivalent stiffness modulation, peak contact force suppression, rebound mitigation, and kinetic energy dissipation efficiency. Specifically, increasing the exhaust rate reduced the peak contact stress by up to 23.4% and enhanced energy dissipation efficiency to 98%. The proposed model provides a physically interpretable and quantitatively validated framework for the design and optimization of pneumatic cushioning systems in dynamic grasping applications.
[9] Lin Kong,Xiuquan Lin,Pengfei Wu ,等.Data-driven modeling of the quantitative structure-activity relationship between aggregate contact parameters and dynamic modulus in asphalt mixtures[J].Construction and Building Materials,2025,470 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study aims to establish a preliminary mapping relationship between aggregate contact characteristics and dynamic modulus. In building the holographic genome database, internal structure parameters of six typical graded asphalt mixtures were extracted and quantified. The number of aggregate contact points, contact length, and contact direction were determined. Based on these measurements, parameters such as the average coordination number, internal structure index, and sine wave harmonic function were calculated. The extreme gradient boosting tree algorithm (XGBoost) was employed to train the model on aggregate contact parameters and dynamic modulus results. Hyperparameter optimization was performed using the Grid Search algorithm and cross-validation, and the importance of model input parameters to the dynamic modulus was assessed. Results indicated that the average decay rate of dynamic modulus was slowest for SMA gradation, followed by AC-13, with OGFC-13 exhibiting the largest change. OGFC-13 was found to be more sensitive to changes in load frequency and temperature. In addition to the test parameters (temperature, frequency, and gradation type) being highly significant, the average coordination number emerged as an important characteristic parameter affecting the dynamic modulus, with a contribution rate of 11.38 %. The importance of the number of contact points (6.81 %) and the sine wave harmonic parameter amplitude (6.27 %) was also notable. This analysis provides a useful reference for subsequent full gene association analysis and data pooling screening of asphalt mixtures. The coefficient of determination (R²) reached 0.925 on the training set and 0.886 on the test set, indicating that the extreme gradient boosting tree algorithm can preliminarily establish a "contact parameter gene-dynamic modulus" performance prediction model. The research results validate the feasibility of the aggregate contact parameter gene unit and the quantitative expression of
[10] Jifei Ye,Hua Li,Zhiquan Song ,等.Simulation and experimental study on dynamic characteristics of isolated contact for 100 kA pyrobreaker[J].Fusion Engineering and Design,2026,222 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The isolated contact of pyrobreaker is used to disconnect the electrical connection immediately upon pyrobreaker current contact opening and establish long-term insulation capability. The performance of isolated contact can directly affect the safety and reliability of the quench protection system. A combined research approach based on multi-physics simulation and experimental methods is proposed to study the explosive fracture process of the isolated contact in pyrobreaker. The dynamic propagation of the explosive shock wave is simulated using the Arbitrary Lagrangian-Eulerian (ALE) algorithm combined with fluid-solid coupling, allowing for a detailed analysis of the pressure distribution on the isolated contact under shock loading and the time-dependent response of their fracture velocity. To validate the numerical model, a shock wave-driven explosion experiment was designed and conducted. Then the high-speed camera was used to capture the displacement of insulation cylinder for cutting contact. The experimental results exhibited a high degree of consistency with the numerical simulation, and demonstrates that the design method of pyrobreaker is effective and reliable.
[11] Zhang, Suli,Xiao, Yu,Lin, Rui ,等.Airborne non-contact voltage detection algorithm based on millimeter-wave radar and deep spatiotemporal network[J].Discover Applied Sciences,2026,8 (2):197-197,SPRINGER
摘要：Currently, conventional live-line voltage verification in power systems primarily relies on contact-based methods, which introduce safety hazards and exhibit low operational efficiency. Non-contact alternatives, such as infrared and ultrasonic techniques, are highly susceptible to environmental interference, thereby limiting accurate voltage measurement. This paper presents an airborne non-contact voltage detection algorithm based on millimeter-wave radar (MMWR) and a deep spatiotemporal network (DSTN). The proposed method enables high-precision voltage measurement through electromagnetic field inversion and dynamic signal modeling. First, using unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) power inspection platforms, an MMWR-electromagnetic field coupling model is established. A multi-scale spatiotemporal feature fusion network integrating convolutional neural networks (CNN) and long short-term memory (LSTM) networks is designed. Subsequently, a lightweight embedded deployment scheme is developed for practical implementation. Experimental results indicate voltage measurement errors below 2% across the 10-100 kV range. The system's interference resistance substantially exceeds that of infrared (> 15% error) and ultrasonic (> 10% error) methods. Key technical advances include enhanced dynamic adaptability (stable performance under wind speeds up to 15 m/s) and real-time processing capability (with inference latency of 50 ms per frame). This technology offers a core solution for UAV-assisted grid inspection, which helps reduce operational costs, improve grid reliability, minimize outage risks, and support the development of next-generation power systems, thereby advancing intelligent grid maintenance practices.
[12] Tiantian Tang,Kai Luo,Qiang Tian ,等.Dynamic reconstruction of signed distance field for efficient contact analysis of irregular deformable bodies[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2025,445 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The approach of signed distance field (SDF) is a powerful tool for efficient contact analysis involving complex and irregular geometries. Due to a need of the prescribed field vectors, however, it is only applicable to the contact detection of rigid surfaces. In this paper, a new method of dynamic reconstruction of SDF is proposed for efficient contact dynamics of irregular and deformable bodies. First, the contact dynamics of moving deformable bodies is formulated via the finite element method. Then, the algorithm of contact detection based on reconfigurable SDF is presented. To achieve a real-time reconstruction of SDF, a set of pre-trained basis vectors are introduced and the gappy proper orthogonal decomposition is employed to update the deformed SDF. The criterion of relative errors of the reconstructed SDF is provided for the quantitative analysis of the reconstruction. On this basis, a two-phase detection strategy is developed, i.e. a globally coarse search ensuring efficient detection and a locally fine search ensuring accurate detection. Meanwhile, a node-to-surface contact formulation with penalty constraints is integrated to reduce penetration during contact process. Afterwards, the procedure of the complete algorithm is given for the contact dynamics simulation. Three challenging numerical examples of dynamic contacts, involving irregular body shapes, finite rigid-body motions, and finite deformations, demonstrate the accuracy of the proposed method. The benchmark comparisons reveal significant improvements in computational efficiency (up to 54% reduction in time) and robustness over conventional AABB (axis-aligned bounding box)-based approaches, suggesting strong potential for complex contact dynamics.
[13] Wang, Kun,Tian, Qiang .Dynamic simulation of frictional contact between slender beams via cone complementarity formulations[J].Computational Mechanics,2025,SPRINGER
摘要：Beam-to-beam contact with friction is a fundamental phenomenon in the dynamic analysis of slender structures, particular in applications involving large deformation and complex contact interactions. In this study, a robust computational framework is proposed for solving beam contact problems with friction based on the theory of cone complementarity problems for both point-to-point and line-to-line contact cases. The thin beams are modeled using the geometrically exact Kirchhoff beam theory, which captures large displacements and rotations without shear deformation. A unified contact detection algorithm is elaborated to consistently identify both point-to-point and line-to-line contact. Contact and frictional constraints are enforced through cone complementarity formulations, providing a unified and physically consistent treatment of unilateral contact and Coulomb friction. For discretization, the point-to-point contact model is used for the cases where the contact region is small enough to be approximated by a point, while the mortar method is employed for line-to-line contact to ensure variational consistency. The dynamic equilibrium equations are integrated using the generalized-a method, in which the cone complementarity problems are efficiently solved via an alternating direction method of multipliers. The accuracy, efficiency, and versatility of the proposed method are demonstrated through six numerical examples.
[14] Guosheng Wang,Zengxun Xie,Dechun Lu ,等.Fracture analysis for reinforced concrete beams under impact using an enhanced interface viscoelasticity peridynamic impact-contact algorithm[J].International Journal of Impact Engineering,2026,208 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Traditional peridynamic impact-contact models satisfy momentum conservation by enforcing velocity consistency, but neglect energy conservation, leading to inaccurate energy transfer. This limitation leads to distorted simulation results of impact failure of reinforced concrete components, which cannot reasonably reflect the transmission and transformation of impact energy, thereby hindering a comprehensive understanding of their failure mechanism. A novel impact-contact algorithm is proposed ensuring conservation of both energy and momentum throughout the collision. The entire impact-contact process between the impactor and reinforced concrete beam is discretized into multiple time steps, within which the post-contact motion states are updated by solving coupled momentum–energy conservation equations for the interacting bodies. The instantaneous collision process is discretized into a series of transient contact events to ensure accurate transfer of impact energy and momentum. Furthermore, an interaction model for composite materials was established by introducing a realistic interfacial material layer between concrete and rebar. An enhanced interface viscoelastic peridynamic method was developed. Numerical simulations show an agreement with experimental results in terms of crack paths and failure modes. Analysis of crack evolution, energy dissipation, and strain rate effects reveals the mechanisms behind diagonal shear cracks and vertical tensile fractures. Parametric studies indicate that higher concrete strength and reinforcement ratios improve impact resistance, while increased impact velocity or mass promotes brittle failure. The proposed method enhances the accuracy of fracture prediction and offers insights for the safe design of reinforced concrete structures under extreme loading.
[15] Kovtunenko, Victor A.,Petrov, Adrien,Renard, Yves .Space-Time FEM Solution of Dynamic Contact Problem With Discontinuous Velocity for Multiple Impact of Deformed Bar Using PDAS Method[J].Mathematical Methods in the Applied Sciences,2026,49 (7):5897-5912,WILEY
摘要：A class of one-dimensional impact and dynamic contact problems taking into account non-smooth velocities is studied. The new space-time finite element approximation of dynamic variational inequalities is suggested. The non-smooth solution for the impact of an obstacle by an elastic bar and its energy conservation under persistency conditions is proved on partitions of the space-time domain. The explicit solution of the double impact problem is taken as an analytical benchmark for numerical experiments. For an iterative solution, a primal-dual active set (PDAS) algorithm stemming from semi-smooth Newton methods is constructed. Numerical experiments compare the space-time PDAS method with some other existing methods: a mass redistribution method, Paoli-Schatzman scheme, and a Nitsche-based approximation, highlighting its advantages.
[16] Peng, Laixian,He, Yuanpeng,Han, Jian ,等.Efficient wheel-rail rolling finite element model using a 2D contact algorithm for 3D response calculation[J].Vehicle System Dynamics,2025,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：A three-dimensional wheel-rail rolling contact model (3D WRRCM) is typically employed to address high-frequency nonlinear interaction problems between wheels and rails. Although this model accurately captures the high-speed motion, rotation and realistic contact mechanics of wheelsets, it requires significant computational resources. To significantly reduce the computational cost, this paper develops an efficient wheel-rail rolling finite element model (EWRRFEM), integrating a two-dimensional (2D) contact algorithm to calculate three-dimensional (3D) wheel-rail responses. This model aims to analyse the dynamic responses of wheelsets and tracks in high-speed railway systems. Initially, a 3D wheel-rail contact framework is developed, then simplified to a 2D contact modal. This simplification decouples the contact state from the 3D rolling dynamics, substantially reducing the degrees of freedom and enhancing computational efficiency. Integrating the simplified 2D wheel-rail contact model with 3D dynamic responses enables accurate characterisation of wheel-rail interaction phenomena. This approach maintains the accuracy inherent to the full 3D rolling contact finite element model (FEM) while markedly increasing computational performance. The results indicate close agreement between both models regarding wheel-rail forces under welding joint and rail corrugation wear excitations, with the proposed EWRRFEM demonstrating a computational efficiency improvement of 480%.
[17] Weibing Cai,Wei Wang,Shuai Zhang ,等.A 3D contact interaction algorithm using unified distance potential field for the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM)[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2025,179, Part A ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To accurately estimate the dynamic collision between arbitrarily shaped and deformable 3D discrete entities, we establish a unified distance potential field using the boundary node list to efficiently calculate contact forces in the framework of the 3D combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). The proposed contact algorithm not only ensures momentum and energy conservation during elastic collision, but also resolves the dependence of contact force calculation on element size that commonly exists in conventional 3D FDEM. We conduct a series of benchmarks to verify the accuracy and robustness of the proposed approach for contact interaction between arbitrarily shaped discrete entities, and we also demonstrate the advantages of the proposed approach compared with the conventional contact algorithm. The work may provide a new solution to analyze any discontinuous computation models associated with rock mass systems.
[18] Wenzhe Zhang,Jinyuan Tang,Yiru Chen ,等.Multi-objective optimization model for contact performance and dynamic response of high reduction hypoid gears[J].Mechanism and Machine Theory,2026,223 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：High-reduction-ratio hypoid (HRH) gear sets are prone to fatigue failure and excessive vibration. Traditional HRH transmission optimization relies on finite element iterative simulations, a time-consuming process struggling to meet optimization needs. This paper proposes a multi-objective optimization method for HRH design parameters, integrating results from Numerical Loaded Tooth Contact Analysis (NLTCA) and dynamic responses. The NLTCA model based on discrete convolution and fast Fourier transformation (DC-FFT) is employed to solve for the instantaneous contact pressure distribution and contact pattern of the HRH gear pair over the meshing cycle. Furthermore, the approach utilizes Component Mode Synthesis (CMS) for gear components and the Timoshenko beam model for shaft components to formulate a dynamic model of the flexible gear system. Using NLTCA results and dynamic responses as objective functions, with the helix angle<span class="math"><math><msub is="true"><mi is="true">β</mi><mn is="true">2</mn></msub></math></span>, mean pressure angle<span class="math"><math><mi is="true">α</mi></math></span>, and gear tooth width<span class="math"><math><msub is="true"><mi is="true">B</mi><mn is="true">2</mn></msub></math></span>as optimization variables, a multi-objective optimization model is constructed via the Kriging surrogate model, solved efficiently by an enhanced NSGA-II algorithm. Finally, rolling inspection, transmission efficiency and noise detection experiments validate the optimized design parameters.
[19] Wang, Jijian,Chen, Yitao,He, Qingyun ,等.Identification of dynamic model parameters for bolted joints using local contact virtual gradient stratification method[J].Journal of Mechanical Science and Technology,2025,39 (6):3017-3029,KOREAN SOC MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
摘要：Current studies on the nonlinear dynamic modeling of bolted joints often neglect the influence of the effective contact area between interfaces. This assumption introduces significant deviations in the equivalent dynamic models due to the discrepancy in contact stiffness at the interface. To address this issue, this paper proposes a twin finite element modeling approach incorporating gradient stratification based on localized contact characteristics. First, a finite element model is established to analyze the contact pressure distribution in the bolted joint interface. A fourth-order polynomial function is used to fit the contact pressure distribution curve. Using 10 % of the peak contact pressure as the threshold, the validity of the selected pressure range is verified through an area integral formula, ensuring it accounts for over 99 % of the total pressure. This allows the effective and ineffective contact areas to be accurately identified. Based on the gradient distribution characteristics of contact pressure, the effective contact area is further divided into virtual material layers with gradient stratification. Subsequently, a deep neural network (DNN) model is employed to achieve a nonlinear mapping between the contact states of the bolted joint, the gradient-stratified regions, and the equivalent dynamic parameters. A twin finite element model is then constructed. Finally, a particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm is used to identify the equivalent dynamic parameters of the virtual material layers. The identification process minimizes the root-mean-square error between the first four predicted modal frequencies of the twin finite element model and experimentally measured values. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed modeling method achieves a prediction error within 1 % for the first four modal frequencies compared to the measured values.
[20] Yang, Kechao,Luo, Yongpeng,Pan, Shuang ,等.Non-contact measurement of structural dynamic displacement based on improved edge detection and video interpolation[J].Advances in Structural Engineering,2025,28 (5):793-810,SAGE PUBLICATIONS INC
摘要：In structural health monitoring (SHM), smartphones are increasingly used for non-contact dynamic displacement measurement using computer vision. To overcome limitations in capturing high-frame-rate data, a non-contact measurement method of structural dynamic displacement based on an improved edge detection algorithm and video frame interpolation is proposed. Initially, a smartphone is employed to capture the structure's vibration video and then generates intermediary frames between adjacent frames that match the structure's motion state by using a video frame interpolation algorithm to obtain a video with a high frame rate. Subsequently, the improved edge detection algorithm is applied to measure the displacement within the interpolated video. In order to address the problem that traditional edge detection may have false edges leading to the degradation of measurement accuracy, a feature point tracking technique is proposed based on the traditional edge detection technique, which effectively excludes the interference of false edges in ROI and improves the accuracy of displacement monitoring. Experimental validation on a cantilever beam and steel frame bridge demonstrates the method's viability and precision, highlighting its effectiveness in improving displacement measurement accuracy compared to traditional methods.
[21] Pu, Yuxue,Zhao, Yibing,Zhang, Chongfeng ,等.Adaptive Variable Damping Impedance Control for Space Manipulator in Dynamic Contact Environment[J].宇航学报,2025,46 (11):2406-2414,Chinese Society of Astronautics
摘要：Addressing the challenge of unknown and dynamically changing contact object parameters during operational tasks performed by space manipulators,which significantly increases the difficulty of impedance control and contact force control effectiveness,an adaptive variable impedance control method based on online identification of unknown contact stiffness is proposed. Firstly,leveraging the error between predicted and actual contact forces,a dynamic adjustment strategy for the forgetting factor and a covariance matrix reset strategy are designed,resulting in the development of a variable forgetting factor recursive least squares algorithm for real-time online identification of contact stiffness parameters. Secondly,an adaptive Lyapunov function is constructed based on a reference model,and a damping parameter compensation strategy is designed,leading to the formulation of an adaptive variable damping impedance control algorithm. Simulation results confirm that,compared to classical impedance control approaches,the proposed method achieves faster and more accurate identification of contact stiffness parameters,exhibits superior performance in suppressing contact force tracking overshoot,and enhances both the compliance of impedance control and the effectiveness of contact force control. © 2025, Chinese Society of Astronautics. All rights reserved.
[22] Wenshan Li,Zhao Liu,Yuguang Fu .Dynamic response of horizontally curved bridges: Non-smooth contact analytical model with seismic time-history input[J].Structures,2026,84 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Post-earthquake reconnaissance has revealed that curved bridges may experience pronounced displacements and structural failure, which can be attributed to their irregular geometries and seismic-induced pounding between adjacent girders or between girders and abutments. This study introduces a non-smooth contact dynamic approach to analyse the seismic response of curved bridges, focusing on girder-to-abutment and girder-to-girder pounding. A six-degree-of-freedom non-smooth dynamic system is developed to simulate pounding behaviour efficiently. The stiffness and mass matrices are derived, and the unilateral constraints are formulated as a linear complementarity problem (LCP) that relates velocities and impulses in normal and tangential directions. An iterative algorithm, implemented in MATLAB, solves the differential equations in the LCP form by accessing the stepwise acceleration time history. The proposed model's capability and accuracy are validated against a 3D finite element model in OpenSees, showing strong agreement. A parametric study examines the impacts of varying expansion gap (EG) sizes and subtended angles on the bridge's response. Results indicate that larger EG size generally increase peak axial and radial displacements at girder ends, while larger subtended angles correlate with increased peak in-plane rotations at girder centroids. These findings elucidate the complex pounding behaviour of curved bridges during seismic events and demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed non-smooth contact dynamic approach.
[23] Ya-Wen Wu,Shan-Yong Wang,John P. Carter .Modelling crack propagation in rocks: a consistent numerical manifold and material point method with quasi-static and dynamic contact[J].Canadian Geotechnical Journal,2026,63 :1-19,Elsevier Science
摘要：Numerical implementation of crack propagation remains an open question, being the subject of numerous previous studies and proposed numerical methods. The numerical manifold method (NMM) is one approach enabling modelling of displacement discontinuities across crack surfaces by employing two independent grid systems (or “covers”). In this study, building on NMM, particle-grid mapping in the material point method (MPM) is interpreted in a manifold-consistent manner. Distinct from the conventional one-way information transfer from the mathematical cover to the physical cover within the Eulerian view in NMM, the MPM framework for crack propagation is constructed under a hybrid Eulerian–Lagrangian view and features bidirectional information transfer between particles and grids. On this basis, rocks containing closed flaws are discretized by material points, and a two-stage contact algorithm is used to capture the interfacial contact behaviour. Modelling crack propagation is realized through a conversion mechanism governed by the Drucker–Prager yield condition. Comparisons between numerical results and experimental observations indicate that the proposed method effectively predicts the development of cracks. This study provides a rigorous mathematical interpretation for the background grid and material points in MPM from the perspective of NMM and offers a novel strategy for the numerical modelling of crack propagation within NMM.
[24] Lu, Chenxu,Chen, Dilai,Qiu, Yi ,等.A Non-Iterative Wheel-Rail Contact Geometry Determination Algorithm and Its Application[J].Advanced Theory and Simulations,2025,8 (1),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：To ensure a more accurate simulation of the wheel-rail contact state in vehicle-track interaction, a non-iterative contact geometry determination algorithm is proposed. This algorithm decouples lateral movement and roll, independently calculates the minimum wheel-rail gap on both sides, and overcomes the limitation of simultaneous wheel-rail contact on both sides. It can be applied to single-side and two-side wheel-rail separation problems. Additionally, by converting track irregularity and rail deformation into the reverse displacement of the wheel, it avoids real-time calculation of the wheel-rail spatial position, thereby improving calculation efficiency. The effectiveness of the algorithm is verified through Universal Mechanism software and field measurements. Subsequently, the influence of the measured wheel-rail profile, rail cant, and rail gauge on the wheel-rail contact characteristics is analyzed. Finally, vehicle shaking caused by track irregularity and wheel-rail contact is examined from the perspective of wheel-rail matching. The study demonstrates that the non-iterative algorithm is suitable for online simulation by pre-processing the contact geometry parameters. When the track gauge and rail cant increase, the distribution of wheel-rail contact points becomes more concentrated. Furthermore, when the excitation frequency of wheel-rail matching is close to the track irregularity excitation frequency, it causes vibration amplification, resulting in lateral vehicle shaking. A non-iterative contact geometry algorithm with the consideration of wheel-rail elastic contact is proposed. The algorithm independently calculates the left and right wheel-rail gaps without iteration, which overcomes the limitation of simultaneous contact on both rails. Moreover, it converts rail elastic deformation and track irregularities into the lateral displacement of wheel, avoiding the real-time calculation of the rail spatial coordinates. image
[25] 唐瑞,高利霞,余丹 ,等.三点接触球轴承拟动力学模型分析及验证[J].航空动力学报,2024,39 (8):483-495
摘要：为定量预测与规避双半内圈角接触球轴承三点接触现象,降低轴承异常磨损风险,采用牛顿-欧拉矢量力学方法,结合该轴承结构与受载特点,对双半内圈角接触球轴承内部元件相对位置与速度关系进行了描述,综合考虑轴承各元件相互作用力、运动惯性力、陀螺力矩以及润滑油对轴承元件施加的流体拖动力与挤压力,建立了考虑三点接触情况的双半内圈角接触球轴承拟动态性能分析模型,并完成轴承非线性方程组求解算法优化,且通过与国外成熟软件计算结果和保持架转速试验结果对比,验证了所建立模型的准确性,研究表明,所建立的双半内圈角接触球轴承分析方法对内部接触角分布和应力分布的预测误差小于12%,对于最大接触应力的预测误差小于2%,且对接触痕迹的预测较为准确,对于保持架实际转速的预测误差小于10%,可用于双半内圈角接触球轴承设计优化。
[26] Victor A. Kovtunenko,Yves Renard .Convergence analysis of semi-smooth Newton method for mixed FEM approximations of dynamic two-body contact and crack problems[J].Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics,2026,471 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A class of elastodynamic problems describing contact between two deformable bodies as well as non-penetrating cracks in a single body is considered in the framework of FEM approximation. For time discretization, the Hilber–Hughes–Taylor (HHT-<span class="math"><math><mi is="true">α</mi></math></span>) method extending Newmark schemes is incorporated. Using mixed variational formulation of the fully discrete contact problem, a semi-smooth Newton method of solution is provided with the locally super-linear convergence. An equivalent primal–dual active set algorithm validates monotone properties of global convergence for the Newton iterates provided by M-matrix property. Numerical solution of the Signorini contact with rigid obstacle is presented for isotropic body in 2D using benchmark and moving load experiment.
[27] 宋少雷,安海鹏,王迪 .舰船角接触轴承的加速寿命动力学模型研究[J].舰船科学技术,2024,46 (22):136-144
摘要：以舰船四点角接触球轴承为研究对象,以轴承加速寿命为目标,在滚动轴承动力学、赫兹接触理论及弹性流体动力润滑理论基础上,综合考虑轴承各元件间相互作用、钢球与保持架间碰撞、轴承润滑状态等关键因素,建立四点接触球轴承动力学微分方程组,采用S-R变步长自适应积分算法求解动力学方程组。结合滚动轴承加速寿命理论,以动力学分析结果为边界输入,基于材料本构关系,使用Ansys以及nCode有限元分析软件建立四点角接触球轴承保持架疲劳寿命估计模型,根据确定的强化因子,采用改变负荷和转速的形式完成对轴承疲劳寿命的评估。研究表明,当量动负荷对轴承加速寿命的影响最大,其次是轴向负荷;转速和径向负荷对轴承加速寿命影响最小;转速对保持架寿命的影响最大。
[28] Zitao Chen,Shuzhan Xu,Guang Yang ,等.A novel GPGPU-parallelized contact detection algorithm for 3D-FDEM: Optimizing the computational structure[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,330 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Currently, the three-dimensional combined finite-discrete element method (3D-FDEM) based on GPGPU (general-purpose graphics processing unit) parallelized computation is widely employed to model failure propagation and contact interactions among different blocks. However, existing contact monitoring algorithms frequently result in computational collapse and excessive computational time consumption due to the fixed memory and serial computing structure inherent in GPU architectures. In this study, a novel parallel contact detection algorithm for 3D-FDEM is proposed. By dynamically decomposing the computational space, abnormal spatial cells are identified and adaptively re-partitioned, effectively preventing computational collapse. Furthermore, by balancing computational workloads among threads, the algorithm significantly reduces computational time. The detection procedure is transformed from a serial to a fully parallel detection mode, markedly enhancing computational efficiency. Compared with existing contact detection algorithms, the proposed method reduces the contact detection time to approximately 5% of the original while ensuring stable performance. Simulations of block sliding and uniaxial compression validate the improvement in computational accuracy, and multi-block collision simulations show excellent agreement with experimental results. The proposed algorithm substantially enriches the computational framework of 3D-FDEM and provides a robust algorithmic foundation for high-dimensional block collision simulations within current computing capabilities.
[29] 苏天祺,郭欣茹,王先鹏 ,等.不同轮轨接触模型对轮轨动力计算的精度分析[J].振动与冲击,2026,45 (3):156-167,181,Chinese Vibration Engineering Society
摘要：轮轨滚动接触是铁路大系统中最关键的接触副之一,选择一种稳健、精确和快速的轮轨滚动接触模型对精确预测车辆和轨道系统动力响应及轮轨踏面磨损至关重要。基于车辆-轨道耦合动力学理论,建立了考虑不同轮轨滚动接触算法的车辆-轨道空间耦合动力学模型,其中轮轨滚动接触数值模型包括:赫兹接触模型、ANALYN模型、MKP(Modified Kik-Piotrowski)模型以及CONTACT模型。利用所建立的数值模型,对比在轮轨界面存在随机不平顺、车轮非圆化磨耗及焊接不平顺情况下轮轨滚动接触算法对轮轨系统动态相互作用的影响。研究结果表明:在车辆-轨道耦合动力学在线仿真计算中,相比于赫兹接触模型,轮轨非赫兹滚动接触模型可更精确地计算轮轨法向动态相互作用,尤其是当轮轨界面存在短波或脉冲型不平顺激扰时;当需要考虑计算效率时,赫兹接触模型可作为折衷选择。该研究可为轮轨动态相互作用及轮轨磨耗预测中轮轨接触模型的选择提供理论参考。
[30] Wang, Lidong,Li, Qingrong,He, Yang ,等.An Efficient Solution for Train-Track-Bridge Interaction Analysis Considering Wheel-Rail Dynamic Contact[J].International Journal of Structural Stability and Dynamics,2025,WORLD SCIENTIFIC PUBL CO PTE LTD
摘要：To address the issue of low computational efficiency in analyzing the dynamic response of train-track-bridge coupled system (TTBCS) considering wheel-rail dynamic contact, this paper proposes an efficient calculation method by constructing wheel-rail contact coupling matrices. In this method, the train is modeled using multi-body dynamics, the track-bridge is simulated via the finite element method, and wheel-rail contact is represented by a trace line-based elastic contact algorithm. By establishing time-varying coupled vibration equations for the TTBCS, the proposed method avoids computational instability issues caused by the loosely coupled method (LCM). Compared with existing methods, the innovations of this approach mainly lie in two aspects. First, a generalized treatment of lateral equivalent wheel-rail contact stiffness applicable to arbitrary wheel tread profiles is developed. Second, a novel strategy is proposed to address the coupling matrix derivation challenges between the wheelset yawing degree of freedom (DOF) and other DOFs. Numerical validation is conducted using a CRH2 high-speed train traversing a 7-span simply-supported beam bridge. The method's correctness is first verified through comparisons with field measurements. Subsequently, computational accuracy and efficiency comparisons with the LCM are performed under two track conditions: irregular continuous welded rails and regular rails with welded zones. Results demonstrate that the proposed method achieves comparable accuracy with the LCM across various speeds while improving computational efficiency by 12-23 times.
[31] di Paolo, Stefano,Mendicino, Margherita,Dos Santos, Jose Miguel Palha de Araujo ,等.Development and Validation of an Algorithm for Foot Contact Detection in High-Dynamic Sports Movements Using Inertial Measurement Units[J].Sensors,2026,26 (3):988,MDPI
摘要：Precise foot contact detection (FCD) is essential for accurate biomechanical analysis in sport performance, injury prevention, and rehabilitation. This study developed and validated an inertial measurement units (IMUs)-based algorithm for FCD during sports movements. Thirty-four healthy athletes (22.8 +/- 4.1 years old) performed 90 degrees changes of direction and sprints with deceleration. Data were collected via a force platform (AMTI, 1000 Hz) and a full-body IMU suit (MTw Awinda, Movella, 60 Hz). Two IMU-based algorithms relying on pelvis vertical velocity (PVV) and resultant foot acceleration (RFA), respectively, were tested to detect initial contact (IC) and toe-off (TO). Force platform data served as the gold standard for comparison. Agreement was quantified through median offset and interquartile range (IQR);the influence of task, sex, leg, speed, and acceleration was investigated. The PVV algorithm showed higher offset than RFA for IC detection (16.7 ms vs. 10.2 ms) with comparable IQR and a substantially higher offset for TO (102.8 ms vs. 20.4 ms). Minimal influence of co-factors emerged (variance < 10%). Results were sensibly improved by combining PVV and RFA, for both IC (5.6 [70.4] ms) and TO (20.4 [78.7] ms). This algorithm offers a robust, portable alternative to force platforms, enabling accurate footstep detection and analysis of complex, sports movements in real-world environments, enhancing the ecological validity of sport assessments.
[32] Gao, Hang-Duo,Hu, Zhi-Qiang,Yin, Zhao ,等.INVESTIGATION ON ELASTOPLASTIC DYNAMIC CONTACT PROBLEMS BASED ON B-DIFFERENTIABLE EQUATIONS[J].工程力学,2025,42 (2):24-32,Tsinghua University
摘要：A novel method based on B-differentiable equations is proposed to solve the elastoplastic dynamic contact problems with friction. The contact conditions are expressed in the form of B-differentiable equations, which can exactly satisfy Coulomb’s law of friction. By nesting the contact solution in the iterative process of constitutive equations, the number of solutions for contact flexibility matrix, which changes with stiffness matrix, is reduced significantly, further resulting in a shorter computational time. In addition, the damped Newton-Raphson method with 1D Armijo type linear search is applied in the solution of contact equations, which provides a good numerical convergence. Through a comparison with the commercial software ANSYS, the accuracy of the proposed algorithm is verified in two numerical examples, and the practicality and robustness of the method are supported in an engineering example. © 2025 Tsinghua University. All rights reserved.
[33] Cheng, Yu,Liu, Jinzhao,Jiang, Xinliang ,等.Segmentation Method of Wheel-Rail Contact Surface for RGB Rail Images Based on Dynamic Snake Convolution[J].中国铁道科学,2025,46 (2):37-48,Chinese Academy of Railway Sciences
摘要：To address the issue that jagged edges of the wheel-rail contact surface lead to low accuracy of segmentation algorithm for grayscale rail images, this paper proposes a segmentation method for wheel-rail contact surface in RGB rail images based on dynamic snake convolution. A rail image acquisition module based on a color linear array camera and a white laser light source is designed and implemented. By embedding dynamic snake convolution, this research enhances the extraction of jagged irregular features and improves the DeepLabv3+ segmentation network, thereby completing integrated segmentation of wheel-rail contact surface and rail surface based on RGB image, as well as classification and detection of the wheel-rail contact surface. The experimental results show that the average Intersection over Union (IoU) for RGB rail images excluding turnout section segmentation is 93. 5%, the average pixel accuracy of the category is 96. 39%, and the pixel accuracy is 98. 85%. For RGB images containing the turnout section segmentationt, the average IoU, the average pixel accuracy of the category and the pixel accuracy of the are 91. 87%, 96. 04%, and 98. 60%, respectively. RGB images can better represent the true state of the wheel-rail contact surface. The segmentation network improved by adding dynamic snake convolution can enhance the accurate extraction of the rail-wheel rail contact surface area, the average IoU is improved by 2. 25% compared to existing methods. © 2025 Chinese Academy of Railway Sciences. All rights reserved.
[34] He Liu,Panpan Zhu,Quansheng Liu ,等.A novel hybrid contact detection algorithm for 2D FDEM: Balancing efficiency and memory consumption[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2025,178 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, a novel hybrid contact detection algorithm, AGS (Adaptive grid-based search) &amp; GJK (Gilbert-Johnson-Keerthi), is proposed to accelerate 2D FDEM (Combined finite-discrete element method) simulations. AGS algorithm maintains computational efficiency comparable to traditional broad search methods based on uniform grid decomposition, while significantly reducing memory consumption by utilizing only effective grid cells in identifying potential contact pairs. Additionally, a modified GJK algorithm with specific initial search direction is employed for contact resolution, which is not only easy to implement but also more efficient than SAT (Separation Axis Theorem). Compared·to existing FDEM algorithms like NBS (Non-binary Search) and GGS (Global Grid-based Search) &amp; SAT (Separation Axis Theorem), the proposed algorithm effectively overcomes their limitations, offering high computational efficiency, low memory consumption, and reduced sensitivity to mesh size. The effectiveness of the proposed algorithm is validated through multiple numerical cases, demonstrating its suitability for both quasi-static and dynamic simulations. Notably, in the numerical cases examined, the algorithm achieves a speed-up ratio of 2.76 at case scale compared to NBS, and saves 37.8 % in memory consumption compared to GGS &amp; SAT. Furthermore, the algorithm is highly versatile and can potentially be extended to DEM (Discrete Element Method) applications involving other convex-shaped particles.
[35] Zhang, Le,Yang, Dapeng,Niu, Baoshan ,等.Smooth Path Planning and Dynamic Contact Force Regulation for Robotic Ultrasound Scanning[J].IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters,2025,10 (10):10570-10577,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：The robotic breast ultrasound scanning (RBUS) system can help sonographer in the early screening of breast cancer. However, it still faces rigorous safety concerns, including non-smooth scanning paths and improper contact force regulation. In this letter, we propose a new path optimization method to improve the scanning smoothness, as well as, a dynamic contact regulation strategy considering both the breast deformation and ultrasound images. For the path planning, the anti-radial scanning approach is first adopted to generate some initial path points together with their normal vectors;then, a dual-objective optimization function is formulated, which considers both the acceleration continuity and deviation of the path, to filter out local path anomalies. For the force control, a contact force-strain regression model is first proposed and used to predict the desired force between the breast and probe at each path point. While within the adjacent path points, an updating algorithm is introduced to dynamically adjust the contact force in real-time by surveying the confidence of the ultrasound image. Our experimental results show that the proposed methods can make the scanning path smoother, and obtain intimate probe-tissue contact with less desired force.
[36] Yang, Zhiguo,Zhao, Wenbo,Kou, Jiange ,等.Observer-Based Fuzzy Adaptive Dynamic Surface Force Control for Pneumatic Polishing System End-Effector With Uncertain Contact Environment Model[J].IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering,2025,22 :17898-17913,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：This study presents an observer-based adaptive fuzzy dynamic surface force control strategy for pneumatic polishing system with uncertain contact environment model and full-state constraints. First, a fuzzy logic system is employed to approximate the uncertain nonlinear dynamics of the pneumatic polishing system end-effector, and a fuzzy state observer is designed to estimate the unmeasured states. Further, to enhance the controller's response speed, a variable separation method employing fuzzy basis functions and the dynamic surface control technique are adopted to address algebraic loop issues and prevent computational complexity explosion. A logarithmic-type barrier Lyapunov function is embedded into each step of the controller design to ensure that all system states satisfy the predefined constraints. Finally, an adaptive fuzzy dynamic surface force controller with full-state constraints is developed to ensure fast and accurate control of the polishing force in an uncertain contact environment while maintaining all states within predefined constraints. The effectiveness and applicability of the proposed control algorithm are experimentally verified using a pneumatic polishing system.
[37] Qiu, Yinyuan,Lin, Guojing,Zha, Yunfei ,等.Research on the Multi-dimensional Dynamic Characteristics of Tripod Joints Considering Contact Geometry[J].汽车工程,2025,47 (12):2431-2440,SAE-China
摘要：In order to investigate the influence of geometries of contact pairs on the multi-dimensional dynamic characteristics of tripod joints, in this paper a dynamic performance analysis method considering contact geometry is proposed. Firstly, based on the principles of conjugate surface, the contact geometry model of a roller track pair is established, and the constraint relationship between them is solved. Subsequently, a multi-body dynamics model integrating contact geometry characteristics is developed using ADAMS software. And by combining the automatic contact point detection algorithm with geometric projection constraint equations, the computational accuracy of the positions of contact points between rollers and tracks is improved, enabling more precise simulation of their contact mechanics properties. The accuracy of the model is validated through bench tests. The results show that when the contact pressure angle between rollers and tracks increases to 20°, the generated axial force can be reduced by approximately 29% without increasing the joint size, significantly mitigating the excitation of vehicle lateral vibration. This study provides a new approach to resolving the conflict between high NVH performance and lightweight design in tripod constant velocity joints. © 2025, SAE-China. All rights reserved.
[38] Lingbo Long,Yaoqi Hu,Cong Yang ,等.Vibration compensation of the laser scanners for rail inspection based on a dynamic wheel–rail contact coordinate system projection[J].Measurement,2026,267 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The laser scanner (LS) installed on inspection vehicles is capable of performing precise railway track inspections. Vibrations induced by rail surface irregularities pose severe challenges to rail inspection accuracy. To address this issue, we propose a vibration compensation method by transforming the scanned rail profile into a dynamic wheel–rail contact coordinate system (DWCCS), defined by the rail vertices extracted from three individual LS sensors. The core principle of our compensation approach is to first transform the profile into the DWCCS to directly eliminate the translational components of the LS relative to the rails. The rail profile distortion caused by rotation is further corrected by projecting it onto a cross-sectional plane perpendicular to the rails. In addition, we theoretically analyze the effectiveness of our compensation method by decomposing vehicle vibrations into two translation components and three rotation components for error compensation analysis. Moreover, for severely worn railheads, we employ a two-step approach involving coarse-matching and fine-matching strategies to extract rail vertices to build the wheel–rail contact coordinate system. An improved iterative closest point (ICP) algorithm based on the multi-segment weighting of profile point normals is adopted for fine matching, enhancing matching efficiency and accuracy. Our method demonstrates excellent vibration compensation performance, achieving an RMSE reduction of 0.42 mm relative to uncompensated measurements in a planar fitting experiment.
[39] Hou, X.,Zeng, D.,Huang, X. ,等.Study on the Long-Term Monitoring of Contact Deformation Field of Periodic Rotating Gears Using DIC Combined with SURF Algorithm[J].Experimental Mechanics,2025,65 (7):1055-1068,SPRINGER
摘要：BackgroundDigital image correlation (DIC) is a widely adopted non-contact method for precise motion and deformation measurement, valued for its high accuracy. However, standard 2D DIC struggles to track relative displacements in materials with significant rigid rotations or out-of-plane displacement interference, such as in monitoring rotating gears. Additionally, the extensive data generated during in-situ monitoring makes DIC-based image matching *** study proposes a method for rapidly identifying identical images from large datasets. The proposed method can also effectively eliminate the impact of rigid rotation and out-of-plane *** study proposes a dynamic period digital image correlation (DP-DIC) method. The technique utilizes the speeded-up robust features (SURF) algorithm to match and select feature points efficiently, addressing the issue of image decorrelation caused by large-angle rotations. Furthermore, a rigid-body matrix restoration algorithm is incorporated to reduce the effects of rigid rotation and out-of-plane displacement *** tests for measuring the dynamic deformation field of rotating gears provide essential data. This data supports gear design optimization, performance evaluation, and lifetime *** study proposes a DP-DIC method based on DIC. Validation tests demonstrate that the DP-DIC method is suitable for long-term monitoring of the contact deformation field in periodically rotating gears.
[40] Maslov, Andrea,Tiwari, Manish K.,Seveno, David .3DDA: A Novel Python Toolkit to Analyze 3D-Dynamic Contact Angles from Molecular Dynamics Simulations[J].Advanced Engineering Materials,2025,27 (13),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：Obtaining fast and reliable contact angles in molecular dynamics simulations is crucial for screening surface wettability. Traditional methods rely on bidimensional density profile analysis to localize the liquid/vapor interface, which may not be optimal at the nanoscale, especially for nonsymmetrical droplets. Herein, 3DDA, a Python-based code that uses the 3D droplet geometry to determine contact angles and analyze dynamic changes during spreading processes at the nanoscale, is presented. The 3D density profile of liquid molecules is enveloped using the Euclidean 3D convex hull algorithm to locate the contact line at the solid-, liquid-, and vapor-phase boundaries. By fitting a general ellipsoidal function and optimizing it with the limited-memory Broyden-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno method, the best candidate function is analytically obtained, describing the interface. The angle derived from the ellipsoidal function and the solid boundary is used to gather a collection of contant angles, which are then fed into a kernel density estimator to determine the most probable angle along the contact line during the spreading process. This methodology is tested on systems such as liquid water and metals, demonstrating its efficacy and reliability. Herein, valuable insights are provided into the behavior of liquids, considering droplet asphericity induced by liquid/solid interactions.
[41] Luo, Yifei,Zhao, Xin,Wen, Zefeng ,等.Study on Wheel-Rail High-frequency Dynamic Simulation Characteristic of Wheel-Rail Rolling Contact Behavior Test Rig[J].铁道学报,2025,47 (1):54-62,Science Press
摘要：To study the high-frequency dynamic simulation characteristics of the wheel-rail rolling contact behavior test rig, the transient rolling contact finite element models of the test wheel-rail and the in-service wheel-rail in China were developed using Ansys/ LS-DYNA. Discrete support under the rail and high frequency vibration of the system structure were fully considered in the models, in which the "face-to-face contact algorithm" based on penalty function, the rail surface irregularity model and the Tγ wear model were integrated. A comparison was made on the wheel-rail force, contact stress and rail wear depth under smooth conditions and typical high-frequency excitation (rail indentation and corrugation) between the test wheel-rail and the in-service wheel-rail. The results show that, under the proportional load, the test wheel-rail can quantitatively simulate the rolling contact behavior of the in-service wheel-rail. However, due to the influence of the geometry of wheel-rail cross section, suspension structure and driving mode, the following differences between the test and in-service wheel and rail can be found: the lateral force of the test wheel and rail is about 0.12 times of the static wheel load under zero lateral displacement, with lower normal contact stress and higher tangential contact stress and rail wear depth. Under the excitation of the short-wave rail surface dents or corrugations, the dynamic force of the test wheel-rail is lower and attenuates faster after the wheel runs over the dent. The beat vibration induced by corrugation of the test wheel-rail is less obvious, while the peak and valley values and mean value of the rail wear depth are relatively higher, which is beneficial to the acceleration of the wear state evolution in experiment. The above differences should be paid attention to when the test rig is used to simulate the running conditions of straight lines or lines with large radius curve, and the installation of wheel suspension and s
[42] Granato, Eduardo C.,Montenegro, Pedro A.,Bittencourt, Túlio N. .MACHINE LEARNING APPROACH TO MODELLING WHEEL-RAIL CONTACT FORCES IN HYBRID VEHICLE-STRUCTURE INTERACTION ALGORITHM[M].COMPDYN Proceedings,2025,National Technical University of Athens
摘要：Vehicle-structure interaction models are highly complex non-linear dynamic problems used to evaluate the responses of the bridge and the vehicles due to passing traffic. These problems usually require specialized algorithms for their solution and its complexity arises from the need to accurately model the dynamic behaviour of the vehicle and structure as well as the interactions between them. Realistic modelling of these contact forces is essential for simulating vehicle dynamics and ensuring train safety but entails significant computational cost due to the highly nonlinear and high-resolution requirements of traditional methodologies. This paper introduces a machine learning approach to calculate wheel-rail contact forces within a hybrid vehicle-structure interaction algorithm, aimed at enhancing computational efficiency by replacing the costly wheel-rail contact algorithms with a properly trained neural network. Simplified two-dimensional vehicle and structure models are employed to train and validate the hybrid algorithm, with neural networks trained on a comprehensive dataset generated numerically containing diverse track irregularity profiles, multiple train speeds, and various vehicle properties. Numerical comparisons between the hybrid and conventional algorithms are performed, comparing the accuracy of the proposed solution in terms of the dynamic responses of the systems and contact forces. Results demonstrate that the machine learning-based model achieves reliable force predictions with minimal compromise on dynamic response fidelity. This approach offers a scalable solution for rapid vehicle-structure interaction analysis, supporting applications in structural dynamics and safety assessments where computational efficiency is critical. © 2025 The Authors.
[43] Bendarag, Abdesadik,Bouallala, Mustapha,Chnigli, Mohamed .Dynamic Contact Response of a Thermo-Viscoelastic Rod with Damping Effects[J].Journal of Nonlinear Mathematical Physics,2025,32 (1):99-99,SPRINGERNATURE
摘要：We study a quasistatic contact problem involving a thermo-viscoelastic rod and a rigid obstacle. The material response follows a nonlinear Kelvin-Voigt law with thermal coupling, where the elasticity operator is locally Lipschitz. A generalized damped condition describes the contact interaction. By formulating the problem variationally, we establish existence and uniqueness of the weak solution through nonlinear evolutionary PDE techniques and fixed-point theory. Finally, we detail our numerical approach and demonstrate its performance through several one-dimensional numerical simulations based on the DGM-FEM algorithm.
[44] Mohammad Sabah,Hannes Hofmann,Mauro Cacace ,等.Modeling Injection-Induced Seismicity Using a Fully Coupled Poroviscoelasto-Dynamic Extended Finite Element Approach with Stabilized Contact and Rate-and-State Friction[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2026,191 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Injection-induced seismicity is of concern for reservoir engineering applications, where fluid flow, in-situ stress, and fault mechanics jointly control fault reactivation. We present a novel two-dimensional, fully coupled poroviscoelasto-dynamic extended finite element (XFEM) model to simulate fault slip and seismicity under realistic injection scenarios. The porous medium is represented by a Kelvin–Voigt (KV) viscoelastic solid in order to allow simultaneous modelling of elastic deformation and intrinsic damping, while inertia effects are included for simulating rupture dynamics and seismic wave propagation. Fault contact is enforced using a Lagrange multiplier (LM) stabilized by the polynomial pressure projection (PPP) method, ensuring stable displacement–contact pressure coupling and preventing spurious oscillations. The fault frictional behavior is governed by a rate-and-state formalism, and the transition between interseismic and coseismic stages is controlled using a modified predictor–corrector algorithm. We additionally present the first implementation of a consistent tangent operator tailored for rate-and-state friction–governed slip, combined with a LM formulation for normal contact, which significantly enhances the convergence of the nonlinear solver. Moreover, a crack-tip enrichment method is employed together with Heaviside functions in the XFEM setting in order to accurately capture stress singularities and tip behavior. An adaptive time-stepping methodology adjusts the temporal resolution based on the solution’s dynamics, thus enabling an efficient and accurate modeling of slip events. The model is verified against benchmark tests and applied to a faulted reservoir, capturing nucleation, rupture propagation, weakening, and stress redistribution. Results confirm the model’s robustness, stability, and efficiency, providing a physically consistent and computationally efficient framework for advancing the mechanistic understanding of injection-induced se
[45] Lin, Chuangeng,Li, Yuxuan,Yang, Yongkuan .A dual-population constrained multi-objective evolutionary algorithm based on dynamic contact mechanism[M].2025 37TH CHINESE CONTROL AND DECISION CONFERENCE, CCDC,2025,IEEE
摘要：Constrained multi-objective optimization problems are common in various real-world applications, and the dual-population framework is preferred for its excellent performance in addressing such issues. In the dual-population algorithms, if the connection between the two populations is too tight, it is not conducive to the iteration of the population;On the contrary, the advantages of the dual-population mechanism cannot be fully developed This paper proposes a dual-population constrained multi-objective evolutionary algorithm based on a dynamic contact mechanism (DPDC) to address these limitations. The DPDC algorithm introduces a variable (ncse) to regulate the number of individuals from the auxiliary population in the offspring. Initially, the populations exhibit a strong degree of interaction. The auxiliary population promotes the movement of the main population toward the Pareto front, thereby enhancing the convergence of the main population. In later stages, the offspring includes fewer individuals from the auxiliary population. Consequently, the distribution of the main population gradually improves. This mechanism effectively balances convergence and diversity. To prove the algorithm's effectiveness, it is tested on the benchmark test problem set DASCMOP, and the test results verify that the DPDC algorithm proposed in this paper outperforms five advanced constrained multi-objective evolutionary algorithms.
[46] Xue Wei,Zunsong Ren,Guangquan Li .Contact Stiffness Idetifiction Method for Joint Surface and the Effect of Contact Stiffness on the Dynamic Response of the Cable Bracket[J].Chinese Journal of Mechanical Engineering,2024,37 (6):532-546,SpringerOpen
摘要：The cable bracket is one of the crucial components of high-speed Electric Multiple Units(EMUs),which is fixed to the axle box by bolts to support the *** an important parameter of the joint surface,contact stiffness significantly affects the dynamic response and service life of the cable ***,it is difficult to directly measure the contact stiffness of the joint *** a result,an identification method is proposed in this investigation to identify the contact stiffness.A finite element model incorporating both normal and tangential stiffness parameters is *** to the finite element model and modal testing results,an improved particle swarm optimization algorithm is employed to identify the contact stiffness of the joint *** effect of the contact stiffness on the vibrations of the cable bracket is *** findings indicate that pre-tightening torque significantly influences the contact stiffness of the cable *** contact stiffness has a great effect on the vibrations of the cable *** contact stiffness notably reduces vibrations of the cable bracket,thereby extending its service life.
[47] Li, Zhen,Wang, Qingshan,Wang, Ruihua ,等.Dynamic Characteristics Analysis of Double Row Angular Contact Ball Bearings with Different Bearing Configurations[J].机械工程学报,2025,61 (1):220-231,Chinese Mechanical Engineering Society
摘要：In order to investigate the dynamic characteristics of double row angular contact ball bearings under complex external load conditions, a 5-DOF pseudo-static numerical analysis modelling of double row angular contact ball bearings is established based on the nonlinear elastic Hertzian contact theory and elastic hydrodynamic lubrication theory, the improved Newton-Raphson cross iterative algorithm is used to solve the above numerical analysis modelling. The proposed modelling takes into account the influences of centrifugal force, friction force, gyro moment, bearing clearance, oil film thickness and bearing configuration comprehensively, the longest iteration solution time is less than 2 s. By comparison, the maximum deviation of displacement and stiffness under back-to-back configuration is no more than 3.3% and the maximum deviation of diagonal stiffness under different configurations is no more than 8.6%, which verify the validity of the presented modelling. The research results show that under different bearing configuration, the contact angles of inside and outside ring have extremum at 180°position azimuth, the contact forces of inner and outer ring are the same and exist a phenomenon that the contact forces are zero;Compared with other bearing configurations, the bearing stiffness with tandem con-figuration increases with axial force increased, is at lower level with radial force and torque increased and weakens significantly with speed increased, it can conclude that the capacity of radial and torque of bearing with series configuration is insufficient and not suitable for high speed working conditions;The angular stiffness of bearing with face to face configuration is at a low level with external load increased, it can conclude that the capacity of torque is insufficient. © 2025 Chinese Mechanical Engineering Society. All rights reserved.
[48] Kang, Seung-Hoon,Lee, Seok-Min,Shin, Sangjoon .Efficient implementation on accuracy improvement of the two-dimensional node-to-segment contact approach for explicit dynamic analysis[J].Computational Mechanics,2024,74 (1):113-127,SPRINGER
摘要：The penalty-method-based node-to-segment (NTS) approach is widely employed in the explicit dynamic analysis owing to its computational efficiency and implementation simplicity. However, the classical approach does not pass the contact patch test and results in severe inaccuracies. This study attempts the accuracy enhancement of an explicit dynamic contact analysis with minimum efficiency loss using the NTS algorithm with the modified area regularization technique (NTS-mAR). The computational procedure is compared to an allied modified penalty-method-based NTS approach, i.e., the virtual node-to-segment algorithm passing the patch test (VTS-PPT). Then, an extension to an explicit dynamic analysis framework is attempted, wherein the speed of the contact force calculation significantly influences the overall computational efficiency. The cost of the remaining computation was minimized by employing a lumped mass matrix and a one-point integration rule for the internal force. Elastoplasticity was considered to extend its application. The accuracy improvement compared to the classical one-pass NTS approach was similar for the modified approaches. The VTS-PPT approach requires more than twice the cost of contact force estimation compared with the classical one-pass NTS approach. In contrast, NTS-mAR approach induces a cost increase from 6 to 36% that of classical one-pass NTS approaches. For the given examples, the NTS-mAR approach is beneficial when an improvement in accuracy is desired with minimum efficiency loss.
[49] Hangduo Gao,Gao Lin,Zhao Yin ,等.An algorithm based on B-differentiable equations method for solving problems involving frictional contact coupled with concrete plastic damage[J].Engineering Structures,2024,316 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, an algorithm is proposed to solve the frictional contact problems while considering elasto-plastic material properties. The static and dynamic solution procedures are derived in incremental form, respectively. The proposed method employs a two-layer iteration strategy. In the outer iteration layer, the equilibrium equations are solved, with the stress and stiffness matrix updated at each iteration. Within the inner iteration layer, the contact force is calculated, where the contact equations, expressed as B-differentiable equations, incorporate only contact conditions in normal and tangential directions, and the contact flexibility matrix, obtained by applying unit force pair to all contact node pairs in turn, is introduced. Consequently, the solution for nonlinear equilibrium equations and contact equations is decoupled, requiring only one decomposition of the stiffness matrix for each calculation of the contact flexibility matrix, as it remains constant within the contact iteration layer. In addition, the constitutive model of concrete developed by Lee and Fenves is utilized. This model adopts two independent variables to describe tensile and compressive damage, together considering the strength recovery of the concrete. Numerical examples demonstrate the accuracy of the proposed method by comparing the results from Abaqus. Furthermore, the present algorithm is applied to static and dynamic analyses of a concrete arch dam with several transverse joints, where the effects of gravity, water level, the number of contact surfaces, and seismic load are considered, and some conclusions are obtained. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[50] Qiumeng Ouyang,Xiaoying Zhuang,Timon Rabczuk ,等.Implementation of three-dimensional contact algorithm in numerical manifold method for the structural impact simulation[J].International Journal of Impact Engineering,2024,193 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Structural impact often accompanies large amounts of contacts and leads to complex mechanical phenomena. In solid mechanics, the numerical manifold method (NMM) is proposed to address problems featuring continuous-discontinuous transitions by utilizing a dual coverage system encompassing both mathematical and physical covers. In the present work, a penalty contact algorithm for 3DNMM based on cover-based contact theory is programmed and applied to impact mechanics problems. The accuracy of the developed contact algorithm is firstly calibrated through free-falling blocks and collision blocks. The influence of contact parameters on contact convergence is systematically studied, and three preliminary criteria for how to set contact parameters are provided. The effectiveness of the contact algorithm is verified by conserving system momentum during block collisions. Subsequently, the contact algorithm is applied to Taylor rod and car-streetlight impact simulation, further confirming its effectiveness in modeling high-speed collisions, large displacements, and large deformations of structures. By comparing the 3DNMM results with those from Abaqus, the contact algorithm developed here performs exceptionally well in solving collision problems and produces results consistent with commercial software. The research results in the present work verify the applicability and accuracy of the proposed contact algorithm in solving structural dynamic impact problems. The present work also provides guidance for contact parameter setting in impact problems. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[51] Hoang, Van-Quan,Vinay, Guillaume,Laget, Olivier ,等.WELL-BALANCED ALGORITHM AND HEIGHT FUNCTION METHOD FOR DYNAMIC CONTACT ANGLE IN TWO-PHASE SYSTEMS[J].Multiphase Science and Technology,2024,36 (3):45-69,Begell House Inc.
摘要：The well-balanced algorithm combined with dynamic contact angle was well studied in the literature but was never implemented with the pressure-implicit with splitting of operators (PISO) algorithm in a collocated grid commonly used in an incompressible, transient simulation. This article presents a well-balanced algorithm for PISO schemes coupling with the height function method for curvature estimation. The dynamic contact angle model from Kistler and Cox is also integrated to improve the modelling of the curvature at the wall boundary. In collocated finite volume schemes, the well-balanced PISO algorithm is developed by modifying both the calculation of the gradients in the momentum equation and the Rhie and Chow algorithm. This new gradient calculation method ensures that surface tension force and pressure gradient are identically discretized at the same location. The Rhie and Chow algorithm is also modified by adding the surface tension force to balance the pressure forces. The stationary droplet case in two-dimensions is presented first to validate the proposed methodology. The well-balanced algorithm coupling with the height function method shows its benefits by damping spurious currents by two to three orders of magnitude. The 3D surface-driven flow and water-spreading droplets are then simulated;the results show that the new scheme coupled with dynamic contact angle model outperforms the unbalanced scheme of the smooth void fraction method for theoretical and experimental comparisons. © 2024 Begell House Inc.. All rights reserved.
[52] Patel, Amal,Els, P. Schalk .Dynamic contact patch estimation from 3D contact patch measurements inside a moving tyre[M],2025,International Society for Terrain-Vehicle Systems
摘要：Vehicle mobility is inherently related to tyre-terrain interaction. Slip conditions arising from tyre forces generated due to the terrain and vehicles state is a valuable indication of a vehicle’s stability. Measurement and analysis of the tyre contact patch is complex, yet abundant information can be derived from contact patch measurements. Literature indicates that analysis of the contact patch is difficult, and indirect methods are used to determine tyre states under ideal conditions of paved roads. Few researchers attempt to directly analyse the contact patch and extract key tyre states: slip angle, pressure distribution, terrain deformation, contact patch velocity and dynamic rolling radius. This study uses the T2Cam apparatus, a mechanism that fits into a tyre and provides the capability to attach cameras inside the wheel that remain stationary despite the tyre rotating. The use of T2Cam and an RGBD camera provides the capability of a non-contact method using DIC (Digital Image Correlation) to measure tyre contact patch deformation and relate that to key tyre states. The purpose of this study is to develop algorithms to extract key states from contact patch deformation of the inside of the tyre carcass under varying tyre conditions. Preliminary findings show tyre deformation of the contact patch is measurable and accurate to be used as an input in an algorithm to calculate slip angle, contact patch velocity and dynamic rolling radius. Overall, determining these factors will enhance the understanding and visualisation of the dynamic contact patch and prediction of vehicle stability on many types of terrain. © 2025 International Society for Terrain-Vehicle Systems.
[53] Huang, Qinfang,Dai, Siqi .Delay Tolerant Network Routing Algorithm Based on Inter-Node Contact Frequency[M],2025,Association for Computing Machinery, Inc
摘要：In Delay Tolerant Networks, due to the characteristics of frequent link breaks and dynamic changes in network topology, forwarding messages out efficiently is a key problem to be solved. Based on Epidemic algorithm and Spray and Wait algorithm, this paper introduces a Delay Tolerant Network Routing Algorithm Based on Inter-Node Contact Frequency (INCF -DTNRA), which aims to analyze how to control the network overhead while improving the message forwarding success rate. In some DTN networks, the frequency and range of node movement may be very large, and the effective contact frequency between nodes may be different. The INCF -DTNRA algorithm records the contact frequency of the current node with other neighboring nodes in the network, and dynamically allocates the message copy quota based on the value of the historical contact frequency, so as to reduce the transmission latency and improve the forwarding success rate. The evaluation has been carried out by ONE simulation tool and the results show that the algorithm can better improve the transmission rate, reduce the transmission delay and reduce the network overhead in small scale networks. © 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
[54] Javanfar, Amirhosein,Azimi, Mohammadreza .THE PREDICTION OF KNEE CONTACT FORCES WITH THE NOVEL TWO-DIMENSIONAL DYNAMIC MODEL OF HUMAN KNEE[J].Acta Mechanica et Automatica,2026,20 (1):111-120,Bialystok Univ Technology
摘要：This study presents a computationally efficient two-dimensional dynamic model of the human knee for simulating tibiofemoral contact mechanics during gait. To address the limitations of existing musculoskeletal frameworks in modeling deformable cartilage contact, a customized dynamic contact formulation was integrated with an OpenSim-based musculoskeletal pipeline. Experimental motion capture data-including joint kinematics and ground reaction forces-were used to drive the model and estimate tibiofemoral contact forces and cartilage indentation. The modeling framework incorporates anatomically derived geometric profiles of the femoral and tibial contact surfaces, a generalized collision detection algorithm, and a nonlinear viscoelastic contact law representing layered cartilage-bone interaction. Computational efficiency was achieved through optimized collision detection and reduced data-handling latency, enabling subject-specific simulations. The model's performance was evaluated using gait data from healthy and osteoarthritic knee geometries. Simulation results demonstrated maximum cartilage penetration depths of 0.795 mm for the healthy knee and 0.521 mm for the osteoarthritic knee, representing 0.5 mm cartilage-on-cartilage and 0.021 mm bone-on-bone interaction. These values fall within reported in-vivo physiological deformation ranges. The proposed framework provides a robust and efficient tool for predicting knee joint contact behavior, with potential applications in assistive device design, rehabilitation, and computational biomechanics.
[55] Xiong, Jie,Li, Xiang,Lei, Yaguo ,等.Automated Non-Contact Vibration Measurement with Dynamic Vision: Framework and Signal Component Analysis[M].2025 11TH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON CONTROL, AUTOMATION AND ROBOTICS, ICCAR,2025,IEEE
摘要：Vibration analysis is of great importance for condition monitoring of mechanical systems. Non-contact vibration measurement methods are generally more flexible for application. However, deployment calibration is usually complex and difficult in practice. To address such issues, we propose an automated non-contact vibration measurement framework with dynamic vision. By utilizing the event stream filtering method, a vibration signal reconstruction algorithm is proposed, which is implemented with a robot arm through feedback control. A quantitative evaluation method is established for evaluating the efficiency of vibration component analysis. Compared with the traditional contact vibration sensors through experimental validation, the proposed method demonstrates significant potential in analyzing machine vibrations and performing fault diagnosis. Through experimental validation on the pump test rig, it has been validated that the proposed framework is highly efficient and user-friendly. That shows promising application prospects in the real industrial scenarios.
[56] Zhang, Chaodong,Yu, Wennian,Wu, Jing ,等.Dynamic analysis of gear pairs considering the actual contact state of truncated asperities on the 3D rough surfaces and force-dependent mesh stiffness[J].Nonlinear Dynamics,2024,112 (16):13971-13993,SPRINGER
摘要：Aiming at the problem of calculating the contact characteristics of gear pairs at the mesh position caused by the actual contact state (number, size, position, etc.) of truncated asperities under the action of dynamic mesh force, an original method to determine the nonlinear contact stiffness of rough surfaces that considers the actual contact state of asperities rather than using an empirically assumed function is proposed based on the revised hill-climbing algorithm. Then, an improved dynamic model of gear systems by integrating the mating tooth surface topography and the force-dependent mesh stiffness is established. Nonlinear dynamic features of a gear system under different machining precisions and surface topographies are revealed. Analysis results indicate that the effect of surface scale parameters on gear mesh stiffness is more sensitive than that of torque and speed. Finally, the proposed model is compared to the existing models and validated by the experimental results. The modeling strategy of this present work provides a more accurate and realistic simulation of nonlinear contact stiffness and supplies theoretical guidance for the practical design and manufacturing process of gear pairs.
[57] 柯妍,孙耀亮,潘自立 ,等.考虑钢轨波磨三维几何的轮轨接触动力学分析[J].高速铁路技术,2025,16 (2):7-14
摘要：钢轨波浪形磨损是影响列车运行稳定性与安全性的典型伤损形式。针对以往研究将其简化为二维几何不平顺的不足,本文拓展了考虑波磨三维几何的车辆-轨道耦合动力学模型,能够更准确地描述钢轨波磨处的轮轨冲击动力学和瞬时滚动接触力学行为。为深入探究波磨三维几何对轮轨滚动接触行为的影响,本文对比了所建模型与传统动力学模型(基于Hertz-FASTSIM算法求解)的差异。研究结果表明,(1)在车轮通过短波波磨的过程中,本文模型仿真得到的轮轨力波形呈现出双峰特征,揭示了波磨处于不稳定发展阶段的特征;(2)本文模型所得接触斑在纵向和横向上均表现出显著的非对称性,且接触应力的瞬时变化更为剧烈,而传统模型的变化则相对平缓;(3)与传统模型相比,本文模型预测的钢轨波磨深度限值偏于保守,这主要是由于轮轨接触点的瞬时转移行为引发了更为剧烈的轮轨冲击力。然而,随着运行速度的增加,两种模型之间的差异逐渐减小,最终趋于一致。
[58] Shah, Darshita,Dave, Jatin,Chauhan, Mihir ,等.Design and multiobjective optimization of a two-point contact ladder-climbing robot using a genetic algorithm[J].Journal of Field Robotics,2025,42 (1):219-241,WILEY
摘要：This paper presents the design and optimization of a climbing robot. The design of a ladder-climbing robot is done with fundamental mathematical considerations. The designed robot is robust enough to manage all environmental calamities, and at the same time, it is optimized for lightweight to reduce the actuator's cost and ease of transportation. An analytical evaluation is carried out for both static and dynamic conditions to determine strength and motion characteristics. The multiobjective optimization of the design parameters of a ladder-climbing robot is done to obtain optimized values of design parameters. The formulation of an optimization problem that considers the minimization of weight and natural frequency is performed. Using an evolutionary genetic algorithm (GA) for the multicriteria optimization problem is solved, and a Pareto front solution is obtained. The optimal values of the parameters are decided based on the knee selection technique. As both objective functions are contradictory, the optimum results significantly improve the robot's performance. Controlling the proportional-integral-derivative (PID) parameters is crucial as the robot climbs with a two-point contact gait pattern. The controlling parameters impart stability to the robot. PID parameters like proportional, integral and derivative gain are tunned using the GA. Finally, the developed prototype is tested on the ladders of the tower, and satisfactory climbing motion is achieved.
[59] Yan, Rongge,Wang, Xueqian,Zhao, Haokai ,等.Study on the Motion and Temperature Characteristics of Electromagnetic Propulsion Devices Considering Dynamic Contact Resistance[J].高电压技术,2024,50 (10):4749-4759,Science Press
摘要：In the operation of electromagnetic propulsion devices, the dynamic change in contact resistance between the armature and the rail significantly impacts the system’s performance. To address the limitations of existing studies that primarily rely on the Holm’s theory of contact resistance and are based on the static state of the armature, this paper employs finite element analysis and the method of controlled variables to investigate the effects of dynamic contact resistance on the motion and temperature characteristics of electromagnetic propulsion devices under actual propulsion conditions. Firstly, key parameters such as muzzle voltage, current, armature velocity and displacement were obtained through experiments. Subsequently, the acquired signals were processed to denoise via using an improved complete ensemble empirical mode decomposition with adaptive noise (ICEEMDAN) combined with a wavelet thresholding algorithm, thus the dynamic contact resistance under real operating conditions could be calculated. Electromagnetic-thermal coupled finite element models were developed to assess the effects of dynamic contact resistance on the armature motion and temperature characteristics, with and without considering the resistance. Experimental comparisons reveal that dynamic contact resistance significantly influences propulsion device performance. And the impact on motion characteristics increases with the armature displacement. Moreover, the presence of dynamic contact resistance can rapidly increase the surface temperature of the armature, leading to the likelihood of ablation at the tail end, which in turn affects the armature's acceleration performance. This research provides theoretical supports for further analysis of the impact of dynamic contact resistance on electromagnetic propulsion devices under extreme conditions. © 2024 Science Press. All rights reserved.
[60] Cao, Chongxing,Wang, Haiwei,Wang, Youjing ,等.An Improved Algorithm for the Meshing Stiffness of Asymmetric Helical Gears Based on Finite Element Method and Elastic Contact Theory[M].Lecture Notes in Mechanical Engineering,2026,Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH
摘要：In this paper, an asymmetric helical gear meshing stiffness calculation method combining finite element method and elastic contact theory is proposed. In this method, the original compliance matrix of the tooth surface is extracted by the substructure method, the bending deformation of the contact point is separated, the contact deformation is calculated according to the analytical formula of the linear contact deformation, and the time-varying meshing stiffness of the gear is obtained by solving the coordination equation of the nonlinear deformation. Compared with the conventional finite element method, this method can effectively improve the calculation efficiency and stability, and can provide effective guidance for the design of asymmetric helical gear strength and dynamic characteristics. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2026.
[61] Weiwei Wang,Cheng Huang,Huihong Chen ,等.Dynamic monitoring and analysis of corn seed-soil contact bounce and rolling during precision planting using deep learning[J].Smart Agricultural Technology,2026,14 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Real-time characterization of transient seed-soil contact dynamics remains a major challenge in high-speed precision seeding. This study proposes a dynamic monitoring and analysis framework that integrates a YOLO-based object detection algorithm with high-speed imaging to quantify seed motion during release and soil penetration. A YOLOv11 model is employed for real-time detection and tracking of individual seeds from high-speed video sequences, with seed velocity derived from inter-frame displacement and time intervals. A three-factor orthogonal experimental design is implemented to investigate the coupled effects of soil moisture content, operating speed of the seed metering device and seed orientation on seed motion characteristics including velocity, kinetic energy, displacement. The results demonstrate that the integrated YOLO and high-speed vision system enables high-precision seed detection and dynamic tracking. Strong three-factor coupling effects are identified, indicating that seed penetration dynamics are governed by non-additive interactions. Representative parameter-dependent patterns were identified: under 15% soil moisture and an operating speed of 1.67 m/s, lateral seed orientation showed higher velocity and kinetic energy, whereas under 25% soil moisture and 3.33 m/s, vertical orientation exhibited better post-impact motion stability. These findings indicate that coordinated adjustment of seed orientation and operating speed under different soil moisture conditions can effectively suppress post-impact rebound and slippage, thereby reducing seeding-point displacement and improving seed spacing uniformity. The proposed framework provides a technical foundation for real-time parameter regulation in intelligent precision seeding systems, enabling higher operational speeds without compromising placement accuracy.
[62] Yan, Duifeng,Shen, Yantao,Zhu, Dejun ,等.Life Cycle State Evaluation of Auxiliary Circuit-Breaker in Synthetic Test Circuit Based on Dynamic Contact Resistance[M].2024 7TH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON ELECTRIC POWER EQUIPMENT-SWITCHING TECHNOLOGY, ICEPE-ST 2024,2024,IEEE
摘要：The SF6 auxiliary circuit-breaker (ACB) plays a role in the synthetic test circuit to isolate the current source, carry the higher transient recovery voltage of the voltage circuit, protect the current source, so timely grasping the state of the ACB is of great significance for test plan and safety. In this paper, the dynamic contact resistance of the ACB during the opening process after different times of arc erosion in a life cycle is measured using the four-wire method, and the dynamic contact resistance curve is plotted. According to the contact situation of the contacts during the opening process, the dynamic contact resistance curve can be divided into two stages: the main-contact stage and the arc-contact stage. With the deepening of the ablation degree of the ACB contacts, the average dynamic contact resistance of the arc-contact stage shows an increasing trend and the arc contact separation time shows a decreasing trend. The average dynamic contact resistance of the main contact and its separation time have the same trend as those of the arc-contact stage, but the amplitude is smaller than those of the arc-contact stage. After further analysis of the measurement results, the evaluation parameters are determined, and the state evaluation model of the whole life cycle of the ACB is established. The evaluation model is trained by Back Propagation Neural Network optimized by Mind Evolutionary Algorithm (MEA-BP neural network). After the evaluation model is trained, it can be used to evaluate the state of the ACB. In this paper, the accuracy of the model is verified by using the dynamic contact resistance measurement results in other different life cycles.
[63] Souza, Ronimack T.,Lira, George R. S.,Costa, Edson G. ,等.Methodology for Circuit Breaker Contact Diagnosis through Dynamic Resistance Measurements and Fuzzy-Logic-Based Analysis[J].Energies,2024,17 (8),MDPI
摘要：This paper presents a methodology capable of measuring, processing, and extracting contact resistance parameters that enable the identification of the contact degradation level inside arc extinction chambers in medium- and high-voltage circuit breakers (CB). To determine the contact degradation level, an algorithm was developed to extract the characteristic parameters from the results of dynamic resistance measurement (DRM). To analyze the dataset parameters, this work employs the combination of different statistical tools, such as boxplots and fuzzy logic, enabling the evaluation to be conducted without the subjectivity inherent in human decision. Therefore, a more objective and reliable diagnosis could be achieved. The DRM tests were performed on two types of minimum-oil CB (MOCB), 800 A/15 kV/12.5 kA (CB-A) and 2000 A/72.5 kV/31.5 kA (CB-B and CB-C). For CB-A and CB-B, three contacts were utilized for each CB, with significant contact degradation. For CB-C, a single contact was employed without significant degradation. The DRM curves of the CB-C contact were used as the reference for evaluation of the CB-B contacts. For this purpose, a new DRM system was developed. The proposed methodology can be defined as a complement for other diagnostic techniques, serving as a non-subjective asset management tool, supporting decisions regarding equipment interventions.
[64] Ding, Can,Wang, Zhoulin,Yuan, Zhao ,等.Structural Optimization Design of Vacuum Interrupter Contact Based on Multi-objective Grey Wolf Optimization Algorithm and RBF Neural Network[J].高电压技术,2024,50 (2):543-550,Science Press
摘要：A suitable magnetic field distribution of the vacuum interrupter contact when breaking is conducive to improving its interrupting performance. At the moment of closing, the electrodynamic repulsion force between the moving and static contact can cause the contact to bounce. To solve the above problems, this paper firstly establishes a three-dimensional model of cup-shaped longitudinal magnetic contact with iron core, and carries out the calculation of magnetic field distribution and electrodynamic repulsion force. In order to further improve the contact performance, the RBF neural network model is constructed with the contact plate slot length, slot width, radial deflection angle, the heigth of cup holder slope slot, and individual slope slot up-and-down rotation angle as inputs. The maximum longitudinal magnetic field strength in the center plane of the contact gap at the peak current moment, the hysteresis time at the center point at the over-zero moment, and the electrodynamic repulsion force between the dynamic and static contact at closing are taken as outputs, respectively. Finally, the structure of contact is optimized by combining the RBF neural network model with the multi-objective grey wolf optimization algorithm (MOGWO). The results show that, compared to the initial structure, when the length of the contact plate slot is 19.74 mm, the width is 3.94 mm, the radial deflection angle is 19.9°, the height of the cup holder slope slot is 18.0 mm, and up-and-down rotating angle rotation angle is 119.2°, the contacts have a better magnetic field characteristics and the electrodynamic repulsion force between the dynamic and static contact is significantly reduced, which is conducive to improving the working performance of the contacts. © 2024 Science Press. All rights reserved.
[65] 畅博彦,韩芳孝,周杨 ,等.精梳机钳板机构接触碰撞动力学建模与仿真[J].纺织学报,2025,46 (1):179-186,China Textile Engineering Society
摘要：高速、高产、优质是新一代国产棉纺精梳机的发展目标,而当前精梳机存在的主要问题之一是高速运行时钳板机构产生的冲击严重限制了精梳机转速的提升,针对该问题进行动力学研究以提升钳板机构稳定性,达到推进精梳机高速化的目的。首先,以中支点式钳板机构为研究对象,基于接触碰撞理论建立钳板在接触和分离瞬时的冲击力计算模型,结合Lagrange方程对钳板机构进行接触碰撞动力学建模。其次,运用MatLab对所建动力学模型进行数值计算仿真,结合三维虚拟样机仿真验证模型的正确性和有效性。最后,分析钳板机构工况参数和加压弹簧刚度对冲击运动和冲击接触应力的影响规律。结果表明:钳口与牵吊杆处的最大接触应力远大于稳定接触应力,且回弹量和回弹时间会随锡林轴转速的提高而增大,随加压弹簧刚度的增大而减小。
[66] Kwon, Seung Lee,Kim, Seongik,Ha, Dongwon ,等.A fully nonlinear three-dimensional dynamic frictional contact analysis method under large deformation with the area regularization[J].Engineering with Computers,2024,40 (1):399-421,SPRINGER
摘要：This paper presents the NTS-AR (node-to-segment with area regularization) method to analyze the three-dimensional dynamic frictional contact bodies under large deformation and plastic material behavior. The extended NTS-AR method considers the 3D geometric structure of the slave surface and frictional constraint in a convected coordinate system. Despite wide applications of the penalty-based node-to-segment (NTS) method, owing to its light computation cost, the penalty-based NTS algorithm still has limitations in convergence and accuracy. Unlike the original NTS method setting a constant penalty parameter, the NTS-AR method compensates the area so that a proper penalty parameter is applied for each slave node. To the best knowledge of authors, the NTS-AR method has been applied only to 2D frictionless contact problems, although the method maintains the advantages of the fast and straightforward algorithm of the original NTS method and shows an improved accuracy. Following validations with various three-dimensional numerical examples, the effects of friction on the tangential and normal forces and displacements under large deformation are investigated with the proposed method. In particular, a collision event of F-35B and aircraft carrier flight deck is simulated.
[67] Na, Hyunbin,Lee, Hyunwook,Park, Chang Hyun ,等.Dynamic Contact Force Estimation via Integration of Soft Sensor Based on Fiber Bragg Grating and Series Elastic Actuator[J].IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters,2024,9 (9):7613-7620,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Research on interactive force measurement in robotics follows two trends: distributed force sensing using soft tactile sensors and centered force sensing using rigid sensors. This study proposes a novel force sensing mechanism and algorithm to integrate the two approaches taking advantage of a soft tactile sensor and rigid actuator based on spring. Soft tactile sensors allow for gentle contact with humans, but have limited recovery and measurable force range. The rigidity of a spring-based actuator is utilized to address their force estimation issues. This allows for estimating a wider range of forces while maintaining the softness. The paper presents a novel approach for integrating two sensors using sophisticated algorithms. Specifically, a deep neural network is developed to estimate the contact location through the tactile sensor. Subsequently, a state-space observer is proposed based on the dynamic characteristics of the robot link, which integrates the network output and the torque measurements obtained from a spring-based actuator. This algorithm provides accurate force estimation during dynamic behavior and enables a wide measurable force range across the entire area of the robot link. The efficacy of the proposed mechanism and algorithm is validated through rigorous experimentation, demonstrating the fast recovery characteristics and accuracy.
[68] Ng, Chi Kit,Gao, Huxin,Ren, Tian-Ao ,等.Contact-Aided Navigation of Flexible Robotic Endoscope Using Deep Reinforcement Learning in Dynamic Stomach[M].IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Biomimetics, ROBIO,2025,Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
摘要：Navigating a flexible robotic endoscope (FRE) through the gastrointestinal tract is critical for surgical di-agnosis and treatment. However, navigation in the dynamic stomach is particularly challenging because the FRE must learn to effectively use contact with the deformable stomach walls to reach target locations. To address this, we introduce a deep reinforcement learning (DRL) based Contact-Aided Navigation (CAN) strategy for FREs, leveraging contact force feedback to enhance motion stability and navigation precision. The training environment is established using a physics-based finite element method (FEM) simulation of a deformable stomach. Trained with the Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) algorithm, our approach achieves high navigation success rates (within 3 mm error between the FRE's end-effector and target) and significantly outperforms baseline policies. In both static and dynamic stomach environments, the CAN agent achieved a 100% success rate with 1.6 mm average error, and it maintained an 85% success rate in challenging unseen scenarios with stronger external disturbances. These results validate that the DRL-based CAN strategy substantially enhances FRE navigation performance over prior methods. © 2025 IEEE.
[69] Gong, Fanlin,Liu, Zongwei,Lin, Lingyan ,等.Dynamic Calibration of Non-Contact Voltage Measurement via Hybrid NRBO-WOA-BP Optimization[M],2025,Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
摘要：With the advancement of distribution automation, non-contact voltage measurement has gained attention due to its safety and flexibility, yet its accuracy is easily affected by factors such as temperature, humidity, installation position, and tower structure. This paper develops a spatial electric field model for 10 kV distribution lines to analyze the impact of environmental factors on the sensor's voltage division ratio, and proposes a dynamic correction method based on the NRBO-WOA-BP hybrid optimization algorithm. Simulation and experimental results show that the method reduces measurement error from over ± 3% to within ± 1%, while significantly improving convergence speed and prediction accuracy, demonstrating strong stability and engineering applicability. © 2025 IEEE.
[70] 支兴帅,程尧,周宁 ,等.弓网接触副磨耗演变规律及其对动力学性能影响研究[J].机械工程学报,2025,61 (18):288-298
摘要：当前弓网系统接触副不均匀磨耗现象频发,极大地增加了弓网系统运维成本,因此探究接触副磨耗性能演变规律及其对弓网动力学性能影响研究有着十分重要的意义。本研究首先通过地面试验探究接触副磨耗性能随运行里程的演变规律,并对接触线磨耗模型的磨损系数进行修正;随后,基于多体动力学理论及修正的接触线磨耗预测模型,建立考虑接触线磨损的弓网系统耦合模型,以探究接触线磨耗演变规律及其对弓网动力学性能的影响规律。结果表明:随着运行里程的增加,接触线不均匀磨耗加剧,弓网系统动力学性能恶化,接触线磨耗性能恶化,其中接触力最大值增加80.13%,接触力最小值降低98.82%,甚至出现离线情况,接触力标准差增加286.61%,接触线不均匀磨耗最恶劣处磨耗率增加546.33%。基于地面试验与仿真分析,发现滑板与接触线磨耗周期内均存在三个阶段,对于滑板可分为磨合期、稳定期及恶化期;对于接触线,由于受流质量的变化,其磨耗率变化可分为磨耗稳定期、缓慢恶化期及急剧恶化期。研究结果可为弓网载流摩擦磨损研究及弓网系统运维提供参考。
[71] Chekhonin, Konstantin A.,Vlasenko, Victor D. .Three-dimensional Finite Element Model of Three-phase Contact Line Dynamics and Dynamic Contact Angle[J].WSEAS Transactions on Fluid Mechanics,2024,19 :1-8,World Scientific and Engineering Academy and Society
摘要：An unconventional model of three-phase contact liny dynamics is suggested for the numerical solution of the boundary value problem of dipping and spreading. The numerical modeling is conducted with the use of the finite-element method in Lagrange variables. The mathematical model of the process is described by the equation of motion, continuity, and natural boundary conditions on the free surface. To exclude the ity of viscous stresses in the mathematical model on three-phase contact lines (TPCL) there was suggested a gridded model of gliding that takes into consideration peculiarities of dissipative processes in the neighborhood of TPCL at the microlevel. To reduce oscillations of pressure in the neighborhood of TPCL, a finite element is used. The suggested method allows for natural monitoring of free surface and TPCL with an unconventional model for dynamic contact micro-angle. A stable convergent algorithm is suggested that is not dependent on the grid step size and that is tested through the example of a three-dimensional semispherical drop and a drop in the form of a cube. The investigations obtained are compared to well-known experimental and analytical results demonstrating a high efficiency of the suggested model of TPCL dynamics at small values of capillary number. © 2024, World Scientific and Engineering Academy and Society. All rights reserved.
[72] Cai, Dong-Ling,Hu, Jingyan,Xiao, Yi-Bin ,等.A Fully-Discrete Finite Element Scheme and Projection-Iteration Algorithm for a Dynamic Contact Problem with Multi-contact Zones and Unilateral Constraint[J].Journal of Scientific Computing,2023,96 (1):1-28,SPRINGER/PLENUM PUBLISHERS
摘要：A fully discrete finite element scheme is proposed to solve the dynamic viscoelastic contact problem with multi-contact zones and unilateral constraints. We develop the well-posedness and error analysis of the nonlinear numerical scheme under appropriate assumptions on the regularity of the solution. Moreover, we provide a projection-iteration algorithm for computation and show the convergence. Several numerical experiments are carried out to validate the theoretical results.
[73] Zhang, Tingrong,Duan, Chengcheng,Hu, Yanwen ,等.A YOLOv7-OpenCV algorithm for detecting the size of insulator damage in overhead contact system[J].铁道科学与工程学报,2025,22 (4):1870-1882,Central South University Press
摘要：To address the problem that traditional machine-assisted manual fault detection methods for catenary wrist arm insulators cannot achieve intelligent damage level identification and real-time monitoring, a YOLOv7-OpenCV algorithm was proposed to realize real-time quantification of damage size detection. The proposed algorithm employed an adaptive histogram equalization (AHE) strategy to improve the local contrast of the detected image, introduced a global attention module (GAM) and an omni-dimensional dynamic convolution (ODConv) module into the YOLOv7 backbone network to enhance the extraction of key feature edge information such as damage shape and size, and improved the model’s attention and detection accuracy for insulator damage targets. Then the OpenCV algorithm was integrated into the improved YOLOv7 algorithm. Through filtering, edge detection, and contour extraction algorithms, the damaged contour was accurately identified, achieving precise quantification of the size of insulator damage. Through comparative analysis of the detection performance between on-site and experimental images, the results show that the proposed algorithm has an average detection accuracy of 95.43% for damaged targets, which is 6.67% higher than the original YOLOv7 algorithm. This indicates that the accuracy of damage recognition is improved. The detection rate is 41.3 frames per second, satisfying the minimum frame rate requirement for real-time monitoring. Compared to the OpenCV algorithm, the proposed algorithm reduces the average error rate of the damage size recognition by about 10%. This indicates that the proposed algorithm exhibits satisfactory detection accuracy and efficiency. The proposed real-time quantitative algorithm for precise positioning and damage size detection of wrist arm insulators is beneficial for improving the intelligent inspection level of traction power supply. © 2025, Central South University Press. All rights reserved.
[74] Kim, Jae-Hyun,Kim, Beom-Soo,Im, Dongu ,等.Optimization of high-speed angular contact ball bearing for aircraft gearbox utilizing an evolutionary multi-objective algorithm, NSGA-III[J].Advances in Mechanical Engineering,2024,16 (9),SAGE PUBLICATIONS LTD
摘要：We develop a program for predicting bearing performance, including the maximum contact stress, bearing power loss, minimum lubricating film thickness, static safety factor, and dynamic life, and an optimal design for high-speed angular contact ball bearings in aircraft gearboxes using optimization algorithms. A program is developed to predict bearing performance by calculating the loads and displacements of individual balls based on the bearing's kinematic and static equilibrium equations. Next, an optimization program is developed with non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm III (NSGA-III), wherein calculated bearing performance indicators serve as constraints or objective functions. The performance of individuals within the final Pareto front is evaluated using the inter-criteria correlation (CRITIC) and weighted product methods. The optimization performances of NSGA-III and NSGA-II are compared based on their hypervolume indicators. A solution of the kinematic and static equilibrium equations under the load cases and duty cycles of real aircraft gearboxes is obtained, enhancing the prediction accuracy. Furthermore, optimization, including bearing performance metrics rarely considered in previous studies, is performed. Optimal specifications superior to reference bearings employed in aircraft gearboxes are obtained, enhancing all three objective functions or specific objective functions. The optimization performance of NSGA-III is confirmed to surpass that of conventional NSGA-II.
[75] Syamlan, Muhammad Ariq,Arifin, Achmad,Syamlan, Muhammad Adib .Design and Development of a Non-Contact Indoor Navigation Aid Based on Ultra-Wideband Radar for Individuals with Vision Loss Using the A* Algorithm[M],2025,Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
摘要：Mobility remains one of the primary challenges for individuals with vision loss. Traditional mobility aids such as canes and guide dogs are limited in range and adaptability, particularly for indoor navigation. This study presented a non-contact indoor navigation system integrating Ultra-Wideband (UWB) radar for precise positioning and an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) for orientation. Haptic feedback was provided through dual wireless bracelets, while the A* algorithm with dynamic replanning updated routes when users deviated from the intended path. Monitoring and navigation data analysis for user training and rehabilitation were enabled through a caregiver mapping interface. Experimental results demonstrated that navigation efficiency in blindfolded subjects increased from 29.6% to over 45%, and completion times decreased from 81.39 s to 42.17 s. For a visually impaired subject, RMSE was reduced from 1.7538 m to 0.3554 m. These findings demonstrate the system’s potential as an adaptive assistive technology. ©2025 IEEE.
[76] 梁栋,曹玉培,徐向阳 ,等.点接触斜齿非圆齿轮齿面设计及动力学特性分析[J].科学技术与工程,2025,25 (4):1458-1466
摘要：为进一步提高非圆齿轮副的传动性能,在齿轮啮合原理的研究基础上,提出一种新型点接触斜齿非圆齿轮,构建点接触斜齿非圆齿轮副主、从动轮啮合数学模型,推导在空间坐标系下点接触斜齿非圆齿轮节曲线与齿廓曲线的几何运动关系,完成轮齿齿面的设计,结合折算齿形法建立点接触斜齿非圆齿轮副的三维模型;构建点接触斜齿非圆齿轮副动力学仿真模型,分析等同条件下点接触斜齿非圆齿轮副与渐开线斜齿非圆齿轮副的动态啮合力,以及不同工况下点接触斜齿非圆齿轮副的啮合特性;对比分析同参数、同工况下点接触非圆齿轮与渐开线非圆齿轮的齿面接触状态以及接触应力,相关研究结果为非圆齿轮设计及应用提供重要的理论支撑和参考价值。
[77] Liu, Siyuan,Li, Bo,Wang, Liang ,等.Application of DE-ELM Algorithm in SF6 Circuit Breaker Contact Ablation Evaluation[J].Electric Power Components and Systems,2023,TAYLOR & FRANCIS INC
摘要：When assessing the ablation status of circuit breaker contacts, the average dynamic contact resistance of the arc contacts of high-voltage SF6 circuit breakers is crucial. The average dynamic contact resistance of arc contacts on circuit breakers under various current levels may be accurately predicted using a method based on a differential evolution algorithm and extreme learning machine (DE-ELM), which is suggested in this research. Combining optimization algorithms yields the ideal input weight and hidden layer bias of the ELM method. The DE-ELM approach has outstanding anticipation performance for anticipation data under various current levels when compared to other anticipation methods. Finally, an expert system for assessing the ablation state of contacts based on the DE-ELM algorithm is created using the average dynamic contact resistance data of arc contacts predicted by DE-ELM. As a guide for the upkeep of high-voltage SF6 circuit breakers, the ablation status of contacts is categorized into four grades: A-level ablation, B-level ablation, C-level ablation, and D-level ablation.
[78] Baranowski, Pawel,Damaziak, Krzysztof .Study of Contact Algorithms Influencing Specimen Response in Numerical Simulation of Dynamic Compression Test[J].Acta Mechanica et Automatica,2024,18 (2):252-273,SCIENDO
摘要：This paper demonstrates the importance of a proper contact algorithm selection when a constitutive model is correlated and validated, especially in the case of brittle materials. A parametric study is carried out to study the influence of contact parameters on the outcomes of the numerical simulations of a dynamic compression test. The split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) model is developed, and sandstone rock is considered as a representative material having considerably different properties compared to SHPB bars. The finite element method (FEM) and smoothed particle hydrodynamics (SPH) were used to simulate specimen behaviour using a LS-Dyna solver. Two contact types based on the penalty method are analysed: nodes to surface (FEM and SPH) and surface to surface (FEM only). Furthermore, three approaches of contact stiffness calculation are used for each contact type. The waveform data and failure patterns are then compared among all simulated cases and the corresponding experimental outcomes. It is found that the soft constraint stiffness (SOFT = 1) provides the best outcomes, especially in the case of one-way contact, and is nearly insensitive to stiffness scaling parameters. By contrast, standard (SOFT = 0) and segment-based (SOFT =2) approaches require a substantial effort in adjusting the stiffness scaling parameters to obtain satisfactory results. This paper provides valuable guidance for correlating and validating parameters of constitutive models for rock and other brittle materials in the SHPB test.
[79] 廖福林,黄建亮,郑星原 .考虑延伸轮齿接触效应的齿轮传动系统非线性动力学分析[J].振动与冲击,2025,44 (18):241-251,262
摘要：为了研究延伸轮齿接触(extended tooth contact,ETC)效应对齿轮传动系统非线性动力学特性的影响,在系统的动力学模型中引入了考虑ETC效应的时变啮合刚度。利用增量谐波平衡(incremental harmonic balance,IHB)法求解了齿轮传动系统的全局动力学响应,对比动力学响应表征的理论结果和试验结果,验证了考虑ETC效应系统动力学模型的有效性。通过改进的Floquet理论确定了系统动力学响应的稳定性和分岔特性。基于动力学响应揭示了系统的跳跃现象和非线性软弹簧特性,分析了ETC效应对系统动力学特性的影响,研究了载荷对系统动力学响应稳定性和分岔特性的影响。研究表明:在鞍结分岔点处系统产生跳跃现象;啮合轮齿分离导致系统产生非线性软弹簧特性;随着载荷增大,系统频率响应曲线上的鞍结分岔点在竖直方向向上移动,导致频率响应曲线上的不稳定区域逐渐减小;与不考虑ETC效应相比,考虑ETC效应后系统频率响应曲线的最大振幅减小了9.79%。
[80] Liu, Yexin,Jiang, Gaoming,Li, Bingxian ,等.3D characterization of electrospun fiber felts based on a voxelized-dynamic contact coupled model[J].Journal of Materials Science: Materials in Engineering,2025,20 (1):144-144,SPRINGER
摘要：Electrospun fiber mats, as a class of high-performance nonwoven materials, are widely applied in textiles, filtration, medical, and other fields. However, the precise three-dimensional characterization of their microstructure and quantification of volume fraction face challenges such as low resolution, poor computational efficiency, and reliance on expensive experimental imaging. This study aims to develop a computer modeling method independent of experiments, achieving high-precision reconstruction and performance prediction of fiber mats. Methodologically, by simulating the electrospinning deposition process, a parameterized deposition model is constructed, and a solvent-orientation coupled dynamic contact model is proposed, which integrates solvent residual concentration with von Mises orientation distribution and quantifies fiber cross-penetration behavior through adhesion offset equations. The main work includes developing an efficient voxelization algorithm that analyzes fiber-voxel interactions via multi-level detection (center point-corner point-ray penetration) and tolerance compensation mechanisms, enabling rapid calculation of volume fraction. Experimental results demonstrate that the error rate of this method is below 2%, and it remains robust in high fiber density scenarios. This model not only provides a high-precision tool for studying the relationship between microstructure and performance of electrospun materials but can also be extended to multi-process parameter optimization and multi-scale performance prediction, thereby promoting the intelligent design and application of nonwoven materials.
[81] 雷春丽,宋瑞哲,樊高峰 ,等.含局部缺陷的角接触球轴承时变位移激励及动力学建模[J].北京航空航天大学学报,2025,51 (3):753-762
摘要：角接触球轴承在长时间工作的情况下,会产生故障损伤从而影响系统正常运行。以外圈具有局部缺陷的角接触球轴承为研究对象,提出不同局部缺陷轮廓的判别方法,建立角接触球轴承局部缺陷时变位移激励广义表征模型,研究局部缺陷演化过程及其位移激励机理。在此基础上,考虑轴承缺陷引起的时变位移对动力学特性的影响,基于赫兹接触理论,建立角接触球轴承故障动力学模型,并通过实验验证了所建模型的正确性。分析结果表明:矩形局部缺陷最终会演化成梯形形态;不同缺陷形貌诱发的位移激励变化趋势是不同的;与局部缺陷的长度相比,宽度对位移激励的影响更大。研究结果对轴承优化设计和故障诊断提供了理论基础。
[82] Kim, Dongkue,Park, Chulmin,Lee, Kiwon .Development of Deep Learning-based Analysis Method for Dynamic Stagger of the Contact Wires[J].The Transactions of The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers,2023,72 (10):1285-1290,Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers
摘要：The pantograph-catenary system is essential for electrified railways, with correct installation of contact wires being essential to prevent premature wear. This paper focuses on determining the dynamic stagger of contact wires and detecting irregularities. To achieve this, a deep neural network-based approach, along with several image processing techniques, was employed. The segmentation of contact wires was accomplished using the U-net architecture, followed by post-processing utilizing a thinning algorithm. To track a contact strip, a template matching technique was adopted, and a scan line search was conducted to identify contact points between the contact wires and the contact strip. Subsequently, the contact points were converted into dynamic stagger measurements. The system successfully detected irregularities with an accuracy of 89.6 %, and based on the results, the algorithm shows promise for practical use in the dynamic stagger measurements for the contact wires. Copyright © The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers.
[83] 梁栋,吴育康,胡汉宝 ,等.双点接触内啮合曲线构型齿轮动力学特性分析[J].机械传动,2025,49 (10):1-9
摘要：【目的】为进一步探究双点接触内啮合曲线构型齿轮的传动性能,有必要分析其动态特性,以期为双点接触内啮合曲线构型齿轮的设计和试验分析提供依据。以双点接触内啮合曲线构型齿轮为研究对象,分析探讨了其动力学特性及啮合规律。【方法】首先,根据给定齿廓参数与基本齿廓形式,基于螺旋运动法推导了该新型齿轮副的齿面方程,构建了双点接触内啮合曲线构型齿轮三维模型;其次,结合Adams动力学分析软件,建立了双点接触内啮合曲线构型齿轮的虚拟样机模型,分析了相同参数工况下双点接触内啮合曲线齿轮与普通渐开线内啮合齿轮的法向接触力、径向力、轴向力和周向力,综合对比了两种齿轮的啮合性能及其变化规律;最后,探究了摩擦因数和转速对双点接触内啮合曲线构型齿轮法向接触力的影响。【结果】结果表明,除了径向力的波动性,双点接触内啮合曲线构型齿轮的动态性能优于同参数工况下的普通渐开线内啮合齿轮。此外,摩擦因数与法向接触力的大小成正相关,与波动性成负相关;转速与法向接触力和轮齿间的波动性均成正相关。
[84] Ng, Chi Kit,Gao, Huxin,Ren, Tian-Ao ,等.Contact-Aided Navigation of Flexible Robotic Endoscope Using Deep Reinforcement Learning in Dynamic Stomach[J].arXiv,2025,arXiv
摘要：Navigating a flexible robotic endoscope (FRE) through the gastrointestinal tract is critical for surgical diagnosis and treatment. However, navigation in the dynamic stomach is particularly challenging because the FRE must learn to effectively use contact with the deformable stomach walls to reach target locations. To address this, we introduce a deep reinforcement learning (DRL) based Contact-Aided Navigation (CAN) strategy for FREs, leveraging contact force feedback to enhance motion stability and navigation precision. The training environment is established using a physics-based finite element method (FEM) simulation of a deformable stomach. Trained with the Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) algorithm, our approach achieves high navigation success rates (within 3 mm error between the FRE’s end-effector and target) and significantly outperforms baseline policies. In both static and dynamic stomach environments, the CAN agent achieved a 100% success rate with 1.6 mm average error, and it maintained an 85% success rate in challenging unseen scenarios with stronger external disturbances. These results validate that the DRL-based CAN strategy substantially enhances FRE navigation performance over prior methods. Copyright © 2025, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[85] Xiaomin WANG,Liaoliang KE,Jie SU ,等.The steady-state dynamic contact of a viscoelastic FGM-coated half-plane under a rigid flat punch[J].Applied Mathematics and Mechanics(English Edition),2026,47 (1):61-76,Springer Berlin Heidelberg
摘要：This study explores the dynamic contact response of a viscoelastic functionally graded material(FGM)-coated half-plane under a rigid flat punch subjected to a time-harmonic vertical *** elastic modulus and mass density of the FGM coating vary exponentially along the thickness *** FGM coating and the homogeneous half-plane possess viscoelastic properties,which are described by a linearly hysteretic damping *** applying the asymptotic method and the Fourier integral transform technique,the contact problem is converted into a Cauchy singular integral *** effects of excitation frequency,gradient index,damping factor ratio,and punch width on the vertical impedance and dynamic contact stress are *** results indicate that adjusting the gradient index of the FGM coating can significantly affect the contact stress and vertical impedance.
[86] Siqiang Wang,Qingwei Xu,Shunying Ji .A novel Minkowski sum contact algorithm for arbitrarily shaped particles constructed by multiple dilated DEM models[J].International Journal of Solids and Structures,2023,280 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Nonspherical granular materials are widely used in various industrial fields. Because the simulation of mixed granular flows consisting of arbitrarily shaped particles with smooth surfaces modeled by multiple discrete element models remains difficult for practical applications, a novel Minkowski sum contact algorithm in the CUDA-GPU architecture was proposed. In this algorithm, super-ellipsoidal equations, spherical harmonic functions, and polyhedrons were used to model differently shaped particles with smooth surfaces using the Fibonacci and Minkowski sum algorithms. Subsequently, single or multiple contact points between arbitrarily shaped particles were determined using the Minkowski sum contact algorithm. The automatic mesh simplification and GPU parallel computing methods were employed to improve the calculation efficiency of the discrete element method. The conservation, accuracy, and robustness of the proposed algorithm were verified by four sets of numerical examples: elastic collisions between particles, inelastic collisions between particles, accumulation of multiple particles, and dynamic granular flows. The relative DEM results show good agreement with the analytical solution, which indicates that the proposed Minkowski sum contact algorithm can accurately reflect the dynamic properties of arbitrarily shaped granular materials containing differently dilated DEM models. © 2023
[87] Wang, Shunyao .Influence of Combined Load on Dynamic Behavior of Angular Contact Ball Bearing with Various Conditions[J].Lubricants,2026,14 (2),MDPI
摘要：The traditional analysis of dynamic characteristics inside a ball bearing mainly focuses on the kinematic trajectory in the steady condition, while various working conditions are often neglected in investigations. A general approach for dynamic modeling and analysis of an angular contact ball bearing (ACBB) considering combined load effects is proposed in this work. In the analytical model, the characteristics of contact-impact are considered and a dissipative contact model is employed to represent energy loss effects. A dynamic performance experiment of an ACBB is performed, which illustrates that the proposed model can be satisfied with the evaluation of dynamic behavior for an ACBB. The characteristic distribution of kinematics and mechanics for an ACBB are calculated, which reveals that there is the correlation between dynamic behavior and working conditions in an ACBB. Clear contact characteristics always appear in the worst working condition. Based on the dynamic stability, the optimal design of structural parameters for an ACBB is outlined, which will prove helpful to achieve a better bearing performance.
[88] Sun, Shuai,Liang, Chong-Xi,Ye, Chengwei ,等.Non-contact Vital Signs Detection in Dynamic Environments[M],2025,Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
摘要：Accurate phase demodulation is essential for vital sign detection using millimeter wave radar. The time-varying DC offsets and phase imbalance in complex scenarios can seriously interfere with the performance of demodulation. This letter proposes a novel DC offset calibration algorithm as well as a Hilbert and differential cross-multiply (HADCM) demodulation algorithm to solve the time-varying imbalance terms. It works by estimating the time-varying DC offsets from neighboring peaks and valleys, and uses the differential form as well as the Hilbert transform of the I/Q channel signals to obtain the vital sign signal. Simulations and experiments have verified the effectiveness of the novel algorithm under low signal-to-noise ratio. Compared with the existing demodulation algorithms, the proposed algorithm can not only recover the original signal in complex environments more accurately, but also reduce the interference of noise on the signal. © 2025 IEEE.
[89] Manvelyan-Stroot, Diana,Filanova, Yevgeniya,Duff, Igor Pontes ,等.Inference of Substructured Reduced-Order Models for Dynamic Contact from Contact-free Simulations[J].arXiv,2025,arXiv
摘要：In this paper, we propose an operator-inference-based reduction approach for contact problems, leveraging snapshots from simulations without active contact. Contact problems are solved using adjoint methods, by switching to the dual system, where the corresponding Lagrange multipliers represent the contact pressure. The Craig-Bampton-like substructuring method is incorporated into the inference process to provide the reduced system matrices and the coupling of the contact and interior nodes. The maximum possible set of contact nodes must be known a priori. Characteristic properties of the inferred matrices, such as symmetry and positive definiteness, are enforced by appending additional constraints to the underlying least-squares problem. The resulting dual system, which forms a linear complementarity problem, is well-defined and can be effectively solved using methods such as Lemke’s algorithm. The performance of the proposed method is validated on three-dimensional finite element models. Copyright © 2025, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[90] 张文虎,于高帅,姜艳红 ,等.装有分段式保持架的双列角接触球轴承动力学行为研究[J].轴承,2026
摘要：某型号直升机自动倾斜器双列角接触球轴承采用分段式结构的保持架,陶瓷球与保持架的运动更为复杂,为探究该轴承的动态性能,基于滚动轴承动力学理论建立了动力学模型并利用GSTIFF算法进行求解,分析轴承工况条件以及保持架兜孔间隙对陶瓷球和分段式保持架动态行为的影响。结果表明:与完整兜孔间陶瓷球相比,半兜孔间陶瓷球与保持架之间的碰撞力更大,且半兜孔间陶瓷球相对外圈滑动速度也更大;与轴承仅承受单一的轴向或径向载荷相比,倾覆力矩或联合载荷的作用会使半兜孔间陶瓷球与保持架之间的碰撞力大幅增大;较小的兜孔间隙会减小陶瓷球与保持架之间的碰撞力,但陶瓷球相对外圈滑动速度会增大。
[91] Bu, Chenlong,Li, Chunguang .A Nodal-Traction-Based Node-to-Segment Contact Algorithm Using the Fischer-Burmeister Function[J].Computational Mechanics,2026,SPRINGER
摘要：This study presents an improved version of the widely used node-to-segment (NTS) contact algorithm and establishes a mathematically equivalent formulation for frictional contact constraints. Conventional NTS algorithms, based on nodal forces, often exhibit inaccurate transfer of contact traction, numerical oscillations in the presence of non-matching meshes, and frequent failure in the contact patch test. To overcome these limitations, the proposed method treats contact tractions on slave segment as independent unknowns in the system equations. By employing the Gaussian integration scheme over master segment, the accuracy of traction transfer between the master and slave surfaces is significantly enhanced, which effectively mitigates non-physical oscillations and enables the present algorithm to strictly satisfy the contact patch test. For handling frictional contact constraints, the Fischer-Burmeister complementarity function is adopted to transform inequality constraints into equality equations, which avoids the difficulties of handling such inequality constraints in conventional algorithms. Combined with the semismooth Newton method, this mathematical treatment improves computational efficiency and convergence. Finally, several numerical examples are provided to validate the accuracy and robustness of the proposed algorithm. The results demonstrate that the improved algorithm attains high accuracy and robust performance in addressing complex frictional contact challenges.
[92] Yunda Dong,Mei Zhan,Xiaoguang Fan ,等.A hierarchical and localized node-to-analytical surface contact search algorithm for flow forming simulation[J].Advances in Engineering Software,2026,217 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Existing contact search algorithms most rely on a generic two-stage framework, which tends to yield suboptimal efficiency by neglecting problem-specific features. Therefore, a novel five-stages node-to-analytical surface contact search algorithm is proposed to reduce the elapsed time by confining the search to localized regions conforming to the point-contact feature of incremental processes like flow forming. In this algorithm, the rigid tools are analytically represented by parametric surfaces, which enhances the geometric accuracy and reduces search volume. Considering the local loading characterization of the process and building upon the master-slave search framework, the algorithm divides the contact search into five sequential stages. The hierarchy gradually excludes non-contact cases and confines the search region to the vicinity of the rollers. At the top level of the hierarchy, kinematic information of moving objects is used to rapidly determine whether contact is about to occur. Next, a two-level bucket sorting method further narrows the search regions. Then, the slave nodes are projected onto the meridional plane of rigid master surface to generate candidate pairs using the bounding volume hierarchy of the segments in its generatrix. Finally, the contact pairs are identified by the close point projection method. This hierarchical algorithm is implemented in the in-house software PySFEM, and is evaluated against the two-stage algorithm using flow forming examples with varying heights of workpiece and different numbers of rollers. The results show the proposed algorithm maintains consistent state variable distributions in the workpiece and reduces the elapsed time by up to 85.14%. Since the proposed algorithm localizes the search region, its elapsed time increases by no &gt;25.7% even if the size of contact surface doubles.
[93] Sun, Chao,Liu, G. R.,Huo, S. H. ,等.A novel node-to-segment algorithm in smoothed finite element method for contact problems[J].Computational Mechanics,2023,72 (5):1029-1057,SPRINGER
摘要：Studies have found that the widely-used one-pass node-to-segment (NTS) algorithm for contacts fails to pass the contact patch test. Solution errors at the contacting surfaces resulting from the classical NTS algorithm do not necessarily decrease with the mesh refinement. This paper presents a novel NTS with the explicit dynamic formulation in detail, which can pass the contact patch test. The proposed algorithm consists of the following technical ingredient: (1) A weighted smoothing technique is developed to accurately evaluate contact forces for contact problems;(2) The central difference time integration scheme is utilized for efficiency, to save storage space, and to avoid the use of tangent stiffness matrix;(3) the penalty method is used for ease in implementation;(4) Our NTS algorithm is coded in the smoothed finite element method (S-FEM). Two S-FEM models are adopted for the proposed NTS algorithm: the node-based smoothed finite element method (NS-FEM) and the edge-based smoothed finite element method (ES-FEM) so that automatically generable triangular elements can be used for excellent adaptation. Numerical examples of the proposed algorithm are presented to examine the performance. It is found that the present algorithm alleviates the nonuniformity of contact pressure on both flat and curve boundaries. ES-FEM and NS-FEM combined with the new NTS algorithm have higher convergence rates. In addition, the ES-FEM has more accurate displacement and stress solutions at the same grid level. NS-FEM can even provide an upper bound solution in the strain energy for contact problems.
[94] Wang, Weiwei,Huang, Cheng,Chen, Huihong ,等.Dynamic monitoring and analysis of corn seed-soil contact bounce and rolling during precision planting using deep learning[J].SSRN,2026,SSRN
摘要：Real-time characterization of transient seed-soil contact dynamics remains a major challenge in high-speed precision seeding. This study proposes a dynamic monitoring and analysis framework that integrates a YOLO-based object detection algorithm with high-speed imaging to quantify seed motion during release and soil penetration. A YOLOv11 model is employed for real time detection and tracking of individual seeds in from high-speed video sequences, with seed velocity derived from inter-frame displacement and time intervals. A three-factor orthogonal experimental design is implemented to investigate the coupled effects of soil moisture content, operating speed of the seed metering device and seed orientation on seed motion characteristics including velocity, kinetic energy, displacement. The results demonstrate that the integrated YOLO and high-speed vision system enables high-precision seed detection and dynamic tracking. Strong three-factor coupling effects are identified, indicating that seed penetration dynamics are governed by non-additive interactions. Specifically, coordinated control of seed orientation and operating speed under moderate soil moisture conditions effectively suppresses post-impact rebound and slippage, thereby reducing seeding-point displacement and improving seed spacing uniformity. The proposed framework provides a technical foundation for real-time parameter regulation in intelligent precision seeding systems, enabling higher operational speeds without compromising placement accuracy. © 2026, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[95] Zou, Hongliang,Liu, Jia,Lyu, Xufeng ,等.Modelling of the dynamic contact mechanics of the abrasive flap wheel based on the Euler-Bernoulli equation of the large deformation theory[J].The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology,2026,142 (3-4):1845-1864,SPRINGER LONDON LTD
摘要：To predict the mechanical behavior of the large-sized Abrasive Flap Wheel (AFW), this paper proposes an improved dynamic contact mechanics model of the AFW based on a modified Euler-Bernoulli equation of large deformation theory. Firstly, a nonlinear constitutive formula for a single flap is derived by nonlinear continuum mechanics. Then, a flap friction mechanics equation is established by decoupling the flap contact force into a uniform load, which use the load quantization method. Finally, the dynamic contact mechanics model of the AFW is built through solving the synergistic mechanism of the interaction force between the flaps. The dynamic contact force and contact area are analyzed by Abaqus and experiments. The results show that the average error of the predicted contact force is 13.6%, and the coincidence rate of the contact area is 87.54%. The AFW dimension and the compression amount are the primary factors governing hysteresis in the contact area, the mid-line of the contact area for the same size of AFW remains approximately stable. The proposed dynamic contact mechanics model can predict the contact mechanical behavior of the large-sized AFW effectively under multi-parameter coupled operating conditions.
[96] Di Paolo, Stefano,Mendicino, Margherita,Palha de Araújo dos Santos, José Miguel ,等.Development and Validation of an Algorithm for Foot Contact Detection in High-Dynamic Movements Using Inertial Measurement Units[J].SSRN,2025,SSRN
摘要：Precise foot contact detection (FCD) is essential for accurate biomechanical analysis in sports performance monitoring, injury prevention, and rehabilitation. This study developed and validated an algorithm based on Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs) for FCD during high-dynamic sports movements. Thirty-four healthy players (22.8 ± 4.1 years-old) performed 90° changes of direction and sprints with deceleration. Data were collected via force platform (AMTI, 1000 Hz) and a full-body IMU suit (MTw Awinda, Movella, 60 Hz). Two algorithms, one based on pelvis vertical velocity (PVV) and one on resultant foot acceleration (RFA), were tested to detect initial contact (IC) and toe-off (TO) events through IMUs. Force platform data served as the gold standard for comparison. Agreement was quantified through median offset error and interquartile range;multivariate regression and Pearson’s Correlation investigated the influence of task, gender, leg, speed, and acceleration. The PVV algorithm showed higher median offset than RFA for IC detection (16.7ms vs 10.2ms) with comparable IQR, and a substantially higher offset for TO (102.8ms vs 20.4ms). Minimal influence of co-factors emerged from regression analyses (variance © 2025, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[97] Ataei, Mahshad,Molatefi, Habibollah .Influence of friction and dynamic wheel load coefficients on wheel-rail contact considering different roughness dimensions[J].Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers,Part J: Journal of Engineering Tribology,2026,240 (5):728-742,SAGE PUBLICATIONS LTD
摘要：The presented research describes a 2D elastic-plastic plane strain model using the multiscale approach to study the contact of a wheel rolling on a rough rail. This paper is the first to investigate the influence of friction and dynamic wheel load factor on the contact parameters of smooth and rough areas. Numerical results in the smooth region indicate that shear stress will level up if the friction coefficient increases;but, the behavior of contact pressure differs. A direct relationship between friction coefficient and plastic deformation is observed in the rough region. When the friction coefficient of the rough surface varies between 0.5 and 0.05, the maximum contact pressure is 5555 MPa-7060 MPa and the maximum plastic shear strain increases to 38.85% - 68.3%. The contact parameters of the rough region are minimally affected by the dynamic wheel load factor.
[98] 雷春丽,薛伟,樊高峰 ,等.EHL下考虑冲击力的局部缺陷角接触球轴承动力学建模[J].北京航空航天大学学报,2025,51 (6):1965-1977
摘要：为详细地分析具有局部缺陷的角接触球轴承(ACBBs)的运行状态,针对传统模型未考虑轴承润滑及缺陷引起的冲击力问题,建立ACBBs在弹流润滑(EHL)条件下考虑冲击力的局部缺陷ACBBs动力学模型。建立考虑自旋的缺陷轴承弹流润滑模型,计算出缺陷轴承的油膜厚度及油膜刚度,再提出ACBBs局部缺陷时变位移激励模型和时变刚度模型,在此基础上建立与缺陷尺寸及轴承转速有关的瞬时冲击力函数;基于Hertz接触理论和冲击力函数,提出外圈具有局部缺陷ACBBs动力学计算方法;研究具有故障的角接触球轴承振动特性,并通过实验验证,分析了不同参数对轴承动力学响应的影响规律。计算结果表明:轴承在润滑条件下,冲击力对轴承的振动影响明显减弱;随着缺陷尺寸和载荷的增大,轴承故障特征的频率均不变,但其幅值增大;随着轴承转速的增大,轴承故障特征频率及其幅值均增大,为滚动轴承的故障诊断和维护提供了有力依据。
[99] Hangduo Gao,Zhiqiang Hu,Zhao Yin ,等.A coupled SBFETI-BDEs method for solving 2D static and dynamic contact problem with friction[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2023,155 :351-370,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, we propose a coupled approach called the SBFETI-BDEs method for solving the 2D elastic frictional contact problem. The contact system is decomposed into multiple subdomains, similar to the finite-element tearing and interconnecting (FETI) algorithm. Each subdomain can be regarded as a scaled boundary finite element (SBFE), where only the boundaries are discretized. To avoid computing the global contact flexibility matrix using the force method, we consider the generalized inverse of the stiffness matrix for each subdomain as a subcontact-flexibility matrix. We uniformly formulate the contact equations, displacement continuity equations, and the equilibrium equations of force for the floating subdomains, as a B-differentiable equations (BDEs) system, which we solve using the B-differentiable damped Newton-Raphson method that possesses a global convergence property. The proposed method offers increased computational efficiency without compromising accuracy when compared to the original BDEs algorithm without domain decomposition. We present the dynamic scheme of the SBFETI-BDEs method within the framework of the HHT time-integration scheme, where the equilibrium equations of force for the floating subdomains disappear due to their nonsingular equivalent stiffness matrices. Numerical examples are provided to demonstrate the convergence, accuracy, efficiency, and capability in solving engineering problems of the proposed method. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[100] Xie, Hong,Zeng, Zhiping,Su, Miao ,等.Dynamic Contact Stress Determination Method for the Normal Collision Between Rigid Sphere and Elastic Half-Space Interface[J].Journal of Tribology,2026,148 (3):031501,ASME
摘要：The Hertz theory's reliance on static equilibrium assumptions limits its applicability to dynamic scenarios. This article addresses the gap regarding the dynamic normal stress at the contact interface between a rigid sphere and an elastic half-space. Based on the physical characteristics of dynamic contact and the mass point dynamics theory, the dynamic equations of the interface mass point are established. By decoupling these equations based on the lateral and tangential motion of the mass point, we derive a unified normal motion equation that describes the relationship between the normal strain of each mass point and the collision center point. The equation demonstrates that the lateral and tangential strains prior to collision do not directly affect the sphere motion in the normal direction, while the incremental lateral and tangential strains after post-collision significantly do. The lateral stress increment, tangential stress increment, and the distribution law of normal stress for each mass point at the interface are obtained. The results demonstrate that the relative relationship between the maximum deformation depth in the non-contact area and that in the contact area, as well as the relative relationship between the anisotropic stress of the contact area and the normal stress at the collision center, are consistent with the results determined by Hertz theory, but the obtained normal stress value is significantly greater than that determined by Hertz theory. The detailed discrepancies have been compared. The findings have implications for understanding and predicting contact interface failure in engineering applications, particularly under dynamic loading conditions.
[101] Bo Wang,Dagang Wang,Hailang Chong ,等.Detection and quantitative characterization of dynamic contact states of bending tribo-corrosion-fatigue steel wire ropes[J].Tribology International,2026,215 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Dynamic contact under bending tribo-corrosion-fatigue tends to cause localized stress concentration and accelerated wear on the hoisting steel wire rope of offshore drilling rig. A self-made dynamic contact testing system is employed to observe in real time and <em>in situ</em> the dynamic contact behavior of steel wire ropes. A polar coordinate system is established to quantitatively characterize the displacement variations and stick-slip behavior of the steel wire rope. The results show that the contact state between steel wire ropes within a single friction cycle can include six stages: adhesion–sliding–adhesion–adhesion–sliding–adhesion. The adhesion time of steel wire ropes progressively decreases with increasing fatigue cycles, fatigue load amplitude and frequency. The average maximum relative displacement of the steel wire rope decreases from the loading end toward the fixed end. The adhesion time initially increases and subsequently decreases along the same direction, reaching its maximum value at the intermediate contact region. Real-time in-situ observation and quantitative characterization methods for adhesion time provide novel perspectives for the in-depth understanding of the dynamic contact behavior of steel wire ropes. The findings effectively guide the optimization design and maintenance of multi-layer winding hoisting systems, demonstrating significant practical engineering value for enhancing system safety and reliability.
[102] 宋宁宁,赵剑,公爵 ,等.车辆在非光滑路面的接触动力学分析方法研究[J].力学学报,2024,56 (6):1762-1774,Chinese Society of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics
摘要：车辆接触动力学研究有助于更加全面地了解整车力学性能,对整车稳定性和座舱舒适性设计具有指导性作用.文章基于非光滑多体系统理论,对车辆系统展开接触动力学研究.考虑到车辆在行驶过程中,轮胎是与地面接触的唯一部件,轮胎动力学模型对整车动力学分析发挥着重要的作用.首先,借助于张拉整体结构的思想,建立轮胎的等效模型.然后,采用拉格朗日乘子方法,将约束方程引入到拉格朗日函数中,并基于第二类拉格朗日方程,推导得到整车系统的一般动力学方程.由于接触碰撞的存在,会导致车辆的状态变量呈现出非连续性.利用牛顿碰撞定律,建立了碰撞响应的非光滑数学列式,并利用光滑化的Fischer-Burmeister函数将非光滑数学列式进行等效替换,以提高计算效率.其次,将摩擦响应的求解转化为优化问题进行描述,以避免求解摩擦方向时出现奇异.另外,将车辆系统的一般动力学模型分解为光滑部分与非光滑部分进行求解,并利用广义α离散策略给出了详细的求解流程.最后,对整车系统展开了多工况的接触碰撞数值仿真,分析了不同工况下的接触响应对整车动力学性能的影响,验证了所提方法的有效性.
[103] Xiang Zhao,Ying Liu,Hongju Li .A nonlinear dynamic model for non-contact mechanical seals with fluid-solid-thermal coupling effects[J].Tribology International,2026,214, Part C ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The dynamic characteristics of non-contact mechanical seals are affected by multi-physics and secondary seal non-linearities, which are ignored in traditional dynamic models. As a result, it struggles to accurately predict dynamic response of sealing systems under actual operating environments. To overcome these limitations, this work aims to propose an advanced dynamic model that integrates the fluid-thermal-solid coupling and nonlinearities of secondary seal. Based on the results of steady-state multi-physics coupling calculations, the transient data set of the primary seal is obtained using the perturbation method. A surrogate model between film thickness and dynamic parameters is established using machine learning method. The existing nonlinear model of the secondary seals is discretized and expressed numerically. A co-simulation solution method of the dynamic model is introduced to enable rapid calculation of dynamic responses. To verify the accuracy of the model, a novel method to measure performance parameters and dynamic responses of the mechanical seal is also proposed by applying force perturbation. The effectiveness of the proposed model is proven through comparisons with several experiments. The analysis reveals that the sealing system has good interference resistance and stability with design parameters. The hysteresis effect of the secondary seal is one of the key factors affecting tracking performance, which increases the risk of end-face wear and excessive leakage. This work provides theoretical guidance for multi-physics coupling and dynamic modelling of non-contact mechanical seals, laying the model and method foundation for failure analysis.
[104] Long, Lingbo,Hu, Yaoqi,Yang, Cong ,等.Vibration Compensation of the Laser Scanners for Rail Inspection Based on a Dynamic Wheel-Rail Contact Coordinate System Projection[J].SSRN,2025,SSRN
摘要：The laser scanner (LS) installed on inspection vehicles is capable of conducting railway track inspections. Vibrations induced by rail surface irregularities pose severe challenges to rail inspection accuracy. To tackle this issue, we propose a vibration compensation method by transforming the scanned rail profile onto a dynamic wheel-rail contact coordinate system (DWCCS), defined by the rail vertices extracted from three individual LS sensors. Our vibration compensation principle is that we first transfer the profile into a wheel-rail contact coordinate system to directly eliminate the translation components of the LS relative to the rails. The rail profile distortion caused by rotation is further corrected by projecting it onto a cross-sectional plane perpendicular to the rails. In addition, we theoretically prove the effectiveness of our compensation method by decomposing the vehicle vibrations into two translation components and three rotation components for error compensation analysis. Moreover, in the case of severely worn railheads, we employ a two-step approach involving coarse matching and fine matching strategies to extract rail vertices for building the wheel-rail contact coordinate system. An improved iterative closest point (ICP) algorithm based on the multi-segment weighting of profile point normals is adopted for fine matching, enhancing matching efficiency and accuracy. Our method demonstrates excellent vibration compensation performance, with the RMSE reduced by 0.42 mm in a planar fitting experiment. © 2025, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[105] Wenbo Hou,Peng-Zhi Pan,Zhaofeng Wang .Modeling of rock multiple fractures system with a new contact algorithm and a novel approach for complex topology construction[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2023,124 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Multiple fractures intersection induced by crack propagation and coalescence is extremely significant for revealing the fracturing essence and establishing mechanical models of natural rock with complex fracture network. A complex discrete interface dynamically adding algorithm (CDIDA) and a potential function-based fracture contact calculation method (PBFCC) are proposed for multiple fractures propagation with complex topology in rocks. Through combining fracture representation with dynamic cyclic “nodal splitting” and nodal assignment with local topological structure identification, CDIDA is proposed to dynamically construct the complex fracture network for the discrete interface approach. CDIDA is able to efficiently establish reasonable local interface topology as the premise of accurately calculating the interaction of multiple fracture systems. Noting that the line attributable to any fracture interfaces can be defined as a set of discrete points, PBFCC transforms the complex contact calculation into the equilibrium problem of these points connecting with hypothetical bonds. The constitutive relation of these bonds is based on a modified potential function, and it is changeable and movable according to the current fracture interface configuration. PBFCC avoids the computing problems such as setting prior contact pairs and contact detecting at each iteration, and is suitable for complex interface contact scenarios with large grid deformations. Moreover, PBFCC ensures that the complex interacting mechanical field calculation of the multiple fracture system is reduced to individual discrete point level, leading to the advantages of high efficiency and wide applicability. Based on the numerical implementation in Cellular Automata Software for engineering Rockmass fracturing process (CASRock), single edge fracture, collinear tensile fracture system, multiple fracture system and complex multiple fracture system simulations are provided to validate the efficiency and
[106] Xinggang Cao,Xiang Zhao,Zhenhui Liu ,等.A Multi-GPU explicit finite element framework with a parallel contact algorithm for drop testing of electronic products[J].Advances in Engineering Software,2026,213 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To overcome the limitations of single Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) configurations in terms of computational resources and acceleration performance, this study develops a multi-GPU parallel computing framework for the explicit finite element method (FEM) that incorporates a parallel contact algorithm. A hybrid parallelization approach is adopted, combining coarse-grained parallelism with subdomains mapped to GPUs and fine-grained parallelism with elements mapped to threads, along with a stream-per-element-type concurrency technique to achieve efficient multi-GPU computation of element internal forces. For the global contact search phase, a GPU-to-GPU contact node communication algorithm is designed, and a GPU-parallelized bucket sort algorithm is developed. To address inter-GPU contact node drift after sliding, a communication and reorganization strategy for remote nodes is proposed. A complete inter-GPU contact force communication scheme is constructed based on the penalty contact algorithm. The performance of the proposed multi-GPU explicit FEM framework is evaluated through a series of benchmark simulations, demonstrating a maximum speedup of 223.29 on four GPUs, significantly enhancing the computational efficiency for drop-test simulations.
[107] Wei Zhang,Yin Su,Jingqi Zhang .Dynamic modeling and analysis of the four-point contact ball bearing with inner rings flexible deformation and multi-point contact characteristics[J].Engineering Failure Analysis,2026,192 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Bearing flexible deformation significantly impact the contact characteristic of the bearing, and multi-point contact is also a key factor that adversely affects the dynamic performance of the four-point contact ball bearing (FPCBB). In this paper, a dynamic analysis method considering the inner flexible deformation is proposed. Firstly, the flexible deformation of the inner rings is derived, and the variation law of the inner ring and the properties of the ball of the bearing with the speed is obtained, and the reliability and accuracy of the model are verified by using the high-speed bearing test bench. Subsequently, based on the dynamic model of flexible deformation, the boundary conditions of the multi-point contact state (two-point, three-point, four-point contact) between the ball and the raceway under the influence of working conditions and manufacturing errors are clarified, and the calculated results are compared with the cases without the flexible deformation, the sliding behavior is analyzed based on the multi-point contact and motion relationship between the balls and the raceways. The results show that the number of balls in multi-point contact is strongly influenced by the flexible deformation of the inner rings, the appropriate load, and a certain range of manufacturing errors can effectively reduce the sliding velocity and the stress between the balls and the raceways. The research contributes to the innovative understanding of the failure mechanisms and structural optimization for FPCBB.
[108] Radchenko, P. A.,Batuev, S. P.,Radchenko, A. V. .Implementation of Non-Reflecting Boundary Conditions in the EFES Software Package for Solving Dynamic Contact Problems[J].Russian Physics Journal,2024,67 (3):280-286,SPRINGER
摘要：The approaches to implementing the algorithm of non-reflecting boundaries are considered. A damping layer is introduced and two different approaches are discussed: stress damping and force damping. In each approach, different distributions of the damping coefficient over the layer thickness are used: linear, quadratic and cubic. It is shown that the force damping using quadratic dependence is the most suitable approach.
[109] Hao, Jianwei,Wang, Jinrong,Han, Jiangfeng .Variational Analysis of a Dynamic Thermoviscoelastic Unilateral Contact Problem with Normal Damped Response and Friction[J].Journal of Optimization Theory and Applications,2023,199 (2):439-465,SPRINGER/PLENUM PUBLISHERS
摘要：In this paper, we study a mathematical model that describes the dynamic frictional contact between the thermoviscoelastic body and the foundation. The contact condition is modeled by the so-called nonsmooth interface law involving unilateral constraints and subdifferential inclusions. The weak formulation of our mathematical model is a coupled system containing both parabolic and hyperbolic variational-hemivariational inequalities. As a result, we deliver its unique solvability by employing a surjectivity theorem for pseudomonotone operators, a fixed point argument for history-dependent operators and a mixed equilibrium formulation with suitably selected functions.
[110] Xiang Li,Shupeng Yu,Xinrui Chen ,等.XJTU-DV: Open-source dynamic vision dataset for non-contact vibration measurement and fault diagnosis of mechanical systems[J].Chinese Journal of Mechanical Engineering,2026,39 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Vibration measurement is of great importance for fault diagnosis and prognosis of mechanical systems in the literature. Non-contact vibration measurement methods have been attracting growing attention in recent years. Dynamic vision is an emerging vision technology, which is developed with neuromorphic sensing principles. This paper introduces XJTU-DV, an open-source dynamic vision dataset for non-contact vibration measurement and fault diagnosis of mechanical systems. The XJTU-DV-Beam sub-dataset includes the dynamic vision data on a structural beam system, as well as the corresponding laser vibrometer data as ground truth. The XJTU-DV-Rotor and XJTU-DV-Pump sub-datasets include the dynamic vision data from a rotor and a pump test bench, respectively. The dynamic vision data are collected under different fault and operating conditions. XJTU-DV provides a data foundation for dynamic vision-based studies on vibration measurement and fault diagnosis, which may promote further development of the emerging vision algorithms for industrial applications. The dataset can be accessed at <a class="anchor anchor-primary" href="https://***/web/lixiang/xjtu-dv" target="_blank"><span class="anchor-text-container"><span class="anchor-text">https://***/web/lixiang/xjtu-dv</span><svg aria-label="Opens in new window" class="icon icon-arrow-up-right-tiny arrow-external-link" focusable="false" height="20" viewbox="0 0 8 8"><path d="M1.12949 2.1072V1H7V6.85795H5.89111V2.90281L0.784057 8L0 7.21635L5.11902 2.1072H1.12949Z"></path></svg></span></a> for detailed information.
[111] Li, Fangyuan,Guo, Zhenwei,Cui, Yunxuan ,等.Dynamic Load Test and Contact Force Analysis of the AERORail Structure[J].Applied Sciences,2023,13 (3),MDPI
摘要：The flexible structure of the new type of aerial track studied in this paper is formed by strings and tracks, which have obvious dynamic characteristics under the action of vehicle moving loads and is also an important factor affecting its performance. The paper uses the full-scale model of AERORail, based on the modal test under a specific span, combined with the fundamental frequency analysis of the structure, and carries out the dynamic load test to determine the change law of the contact force acting on the rail by the dynamic load. The time-domain improved algorithm based on the method of moments is used to identify and analyze the dynamic loads under different spans and vehicle speeds and to determine the correlation between the dispatched loads and the spans and vehicle speeds. It is proven that the occurrence time and frequency of the contact force are related to the passing time of the vehicle. The contact force fluctuates with the change in the vehicle speed, but with the increase in the span, the fluctuation of the contact force decreases obviously. The relevant conclusions provide support for the layout of the AERORail vehicle load. For this innovative structure, the relevant conclusions provide the basis for the application of this novel structure.
[112] 韦为,闫琛,石冬宇 ,等.压缩机滑片动力学建模及接触碰撞研究[J].机械设计与制造,2025
摘要：滚动活塞压缩机在变频情况下滑片有时会与滚动活塞脱离,即滑片脱空。脱空后滑片与滚动活塞发生碰撞,碰撞造成压缩机振动并产生噪声。文章基于滑片受力建立滑片动力学模型,推导得出滑片与滚动活塞接触力解析式,分析不同因素对滑片与滚动活塞接触力的影响,并使用碰撞恢复系数研究碰撞的运动学特性。结果表明:接触力受多种因素的影响,其中两腔气体压差和偏心距对滑片-滚动活塞接触力影响显著;转子转速和滑片与滚动活塞的摩擦系数对滑片-滚动活塞接触力影响不显著;碰撞恢复系数越大,碰撞次数越多,碰撞程度越剧烈。
[113] 张岳,田育林,陈波 .基于接触非线性的进水塔群结构动力响应分析[J].河南水利与南水北调,2026,55 (1):75-76,86
摘要：为了研究进水塔群在正常蓄水运行情况下遭遇地震时的动力响应,文章基于接触非线性方式,计算了进水塔群结构的自振参数,并采用非线性时程分析计算方法,计算了进水塔群结构在正常蓄水运行情况下遭遇地震时的加速度、位移、接触压强和摩擦力等动力参数,同时研究了塔群结构的共振和碰撞现象,提出了有关措施建议,可供类似工程设计参考。
[114] Duanying Wan,Meng Wang,Zheming Zhu ,等.A coupled model of asymmetric GIMP and tetrahedron CPDI based on the penalty contact algorithm for simulating dynamic rock splitting[J].International Journal of Rock Mechanics and Mining Sciences,2023,170 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A coupled material point model (MPM) based on the asymmetric generalized interpolation material point (aGIMP) and the tetrahedron convected particle domain interpolation (CPDI-Tet4) was established to simulate the dynamic splitting of a rock Brazilian disc under small deformation. Furthermore, a boundary-based contact algorithm was developed to accurately describe the contact force between the split bar's aGIMP particles and the rock's CPDI-Tet4 particles. The proposed aGIMP technology enabled particles to move on a non-uniform background grid by changing the original basis functions. A good simulation effect was achieved. It was concluded that the rock particle size plays an important role in the accuracy of the contact algorithm. Two shear failure bands were generated near the contact zones first after the rock specimen reached the force equilibrium state, and then the four arc fracture surfaces grew from the two sides of the shear failure bands and coalesced to a radial fracture surface on the mid-cross section of the specimen. In addition, the tensile strength calculated by the MPM model exhibited the typical rate effect of rock material and was slightly lower than the practical tensile strength of the particle on the radial fracture surface. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[115] Ge Kang,Ke-song Ni,Xiaoying Zhuang ,等.Enrichment of three-dimensional numerical manifold method with cover-based contact theory for static and dynamic mechanical response analysis[J].Applied Mathematical Modelling,2023,122 :524-554,Elsevier Science
摘要：Based on the mathematical grid of 4-node tetrahedral finite element form, the dual cover system, weight function and displacement function of three-dimensional numerical manifold method (3D-NMM) are proposed. The derivation process of element stiffness matrix, inertial force matrix, loading point matrix, etc. are systematically demonstrated in the present work. Based on the cover-based contact theory, the contact detection algorithm among discrete 3D blocks is realized, and the 3D manifold framework is programmed. The accuracy of the developed code is firstly calibrated through two continuum deformation analysis: cantilever beam bending model and axial tensile model of thin plate with circular hole. Then it is applied to three complex discontinuous instability simulation (SHPB, brick wall structure and cliff slope) to verify the effectiveness and accuracy of the proposed contact algorithm. The classic Steven low velocity impact process is also simulated, and the deformation and failure of polymer bonded composites (PBC) are predicted, which further verifies the feasibility and robustness of the developed code in dealing with dynamic impact problems. © 2023
[116] Ming Liu,Hong Guan,Pengfei Wang ,等.Dynamic modeling and validation of disk-drum rotor system with angular contact ball bearing considering parallel and angular coupling misalignment[J].Communications in Nonlinear Science and Numerical Simulation,2026,160 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：At present, the dynamic modeling of the bearing-disk-drum rotor system primarily faces two challenges: accurate representation of the rotor structure and dynamic characteristics of bearing misalignment. In terms of modeling accuracy, conventional methods often employ beam elements to construct finite element models, but these approaches fail to adequately capture the mass and stiffness distribution of complex shell structures such as conical shells. To bridge the gap, this study introduces a beam-shell coupling technique to construct a finite element model of the disk-drum rotor that includes conical shell structures, thereby enabling a more realistic representation of the dynamic characteristics of the structure. For bearing misalignment, considering the unavoidable manufacturing and assembly errors in engineering practice, a five-degree-of-freedom nonlinear restoring force model based on Hertzian contact theory is developed. This model accounts for the coupled misalignment of the races in angular contact ball bearings and is integrated with the disk-drum rotor to construct a complete dynamic model. On this basis, numerical simulations are conducted to systematically analyze the influence of angular misalignment, parallel misalignment, and axial preload on the dynamic response of the system. The results reveal that, for angular contact ball bearings with zero initial clearance, all rolling elements remain under load when axial preload is applied. With the increase of the misalignment, the contact region of the bearing expands, the contact force increases, the response amplitude at the rotational frequency <em>f</em><sub>r</sub> decreases, while the excitation frequency associated with bearing flexibility <em>f</em><sub>vc</sub> increases. Furthermore, combination frequencies such as <em>f</em><sub>r</sub>+<em>nf</em><sub>vc</sub> may also emerge. The findings of this study can provide a reference for health monitoring and fault diagnosis of angular contact ball bea
[117] Sun, Qimei,Qin, Zhiwei,Zhao, Chenchen ,等.Numerical Simulation of Cu / Al Composite Plate Rolling Interface Dynamic Composite Process Based on Contact Model of Penalty Method[J].中国表面工程,2025,38 (1):182-194,CHINESE ASSOC SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY-CAST
摘要：Hydraulic actuators are widely used in aircraft wings, doors, and landing gears. The reciprocating seal is a common seal type. Seal failure can significantly affect aircraft mission execution and flight safety. The surface roughness of the seal pair is a major controllable parameter in engineering and greatly influences sealing performance. Therefore, analyzing the effect of surface roughness on the sealing performance of actuators is both theoretically and practically significant. The Al2O3 oxide film formed on the surface of issues, hindering the integrated development of simulations in the field of rolling compounding. In this paper, we propose a novel numerical model to overcome these limitations. The finite element modeling of the Cu/Al plates in this model employs elongated meshes with an aspect ratio of at least 2. This improvement addresses the shortcomings of previous compounding criteria, which only considered normal forces, by incorporating tangential force constraints. This enhancement allows for a more accurate representation of the actual rolling compounding process, which involves the combined action of normal and tangential forces. The research objectives of this study are multifaceted. First, we aim to develop a robust numerical model that can accurately simulate the rolling compounding process of dissimilar metal-layered plates. Second, we seek to predict the quality of the composite metal plates in terms of their stress-strain field, warping degree, and post-rolling thickness ratio. The study's methodology involves several key steps. Initially, we developed a finite element model using elongated meshes with aspect ratios of at least 2. This choice of mesh design helps reduce mesh distortion and improves the convergence of the simulations. We then incorporated tangential force constraints into the model to address the limitations of previous models that only considered normal forces. This dual consideration of normal and tangential forces allows fo
[118] Xiaobing Guo,Zumei Zheng,Shunhua Chen ,等.An improved 3D multi-sphere DE-FE contact algorithm for interactions between an off-road pneumatic tire and irregular gravel terrain[J].Computational Particle Mechanics,2023,10 (1):97-120,Elsevier Science
摘要：The traveling analysis of an off-road tire on granular terrain is a typical application of contact interaction problems between structures and granular particles. In previous studies, extensive efforts normally idealized irregular gravel materials using spherical discrete elements (DEs), and the influence of irregular shapes was ignored. In our recent works, a coupling algorithm that used a multi-sphere model to accurately represent irregular gravel particles in the context of tire-terrain interactions was proposed. However, this algorithm suffers from low computational efficiency for contact interactions. To address this issue, this work develops a robust and efficient contact algorithm to handle the complex interactions between multi-sphere DEs and finite element segments for tire traveling analysis. The advantages of the presented algorithm are three-folded. Firstly, a rectangular dynamic contact domain is reconstructed to reduce the computational cost in the global searching phase with the use of an efficient multi-grid algorithm. Secondly, we use virtual bounding spheres instead of virtual bounding boxes for hexahedral FE segments to reduce memory storage. Thirdly, a numerical treatment is developed to deal with multi-point contact problems between multi-sphere DEs and FE segments using an inside-outside algorithm in the local searching phase. Finally, the traveling behavior of two off-road tires on multi-sphere gravel terrain using our proposed algorithm is simulated, and the robustness, accuracy and efficiency of the presented algorithm is demonstrated via an indoor soil-bin data.
[119] Seo Jun Bae,Seon Jun Lee,Do Jin Im .A local symmetric pattern-based actuation algorithm (L-SPAA) for contact charge electrophoresis-based digital microfluidic systems[J].Sensors and Actuators B: Chemical,2026,454 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To address the challenges of traditional electrode polarity control algorithms and to propose a standardized framework for droplet manipulation in contact charge electrophoresis-based digital microfluidic systems that has not been previously established, to the best of our knowledge, we developed a local symmetric pattern-based electrode polarity control algorithm founded on a generalized, streamlined, and efficient control framework. This algorithm employs an initial electrode polarity arrangement in which positive and negative polarities alternate across the array. A simple modification of this initial state generates a unique configuration that consistently maintains a centrally focused and symmetrically aligned polarity arrangement, enabling direction- and path-independent manipulation of droplets. By generalizing this unique configuration, the developed algorithm significantly improves the efficiency and reliability of droplet manipulation by reducing the complexity associated with the numerous polarity assignment cases inherent to traditional algorithms. In addition, to achieve generalized manipulation of multiple droplets, an actuation strategy based on assigning priorities to individual droplets was introduced. Furthermore, we successfully demonstrated multi-droplet coalescence using the developed algorithm, and performed quantitative performance comparisons with existing algorithms to verify its usefulness and practical applicability. Finally, the generalization of droplet manipulation enabled by the developed algorithm is expected to expand the applicability of contact charge electrophoresis technology across a wide range of research fields.
[120] Selmani, Mohamed .Dynamic contact problem with wear, damage, and thermal effect[J].Applications of Mathematics,2026,71 (2):219-242,SPRINGERNATURE
摘要：We consider a dynamic problem describing frictional contact between a thermo-elasto-viscoplastic body and a foundation. The contact is frictional and bilateral with a moving rigid foundation that results in the wear of the contacting surface. The constitutive law includes a temperature effect described by the first-order evolution equation and a damage effect described by the parabolic inclusion with the homogeneous Neumann boundary condition. We present a variational formulation of the problem and establish the existence and uniqueness of the weak solution. The proof is based on parabolic variational inequalities, first order evolutionary variational equations, and fixed point arguments.
[121] Singh, Manpreet,Tiwari, Rajiv .Design Optimization of Angular Contact Ball Bearing Using Genetic Algorithm and Grid Search Method[J].Journal of Tribology,2023,145 (5):054501,ASME
摘要：The present work proposes an approach to design and optimize the internal geometry of angular contact ball bearings (ACBBs) with the help of the genetic algorithm (GA) and the grid search method (GSM). Rolling bearings have very complex internal geometry and have varied types. In literature among other types of bearings, very few authors attempted optimization of ACBBs, and subjected to very few constraints. Additionally, none of them considered the free contact angle as a design parameter, which is very important. So, the main motivation of the present work is to see the effect of inclusion of free contact angle in the optimum design of ACBBs. To optimize the geometry of ACBBs, in present study, we have taken a set of 11 design variables out of which 5 are geometric design variables and the rest are constraint parameters. The solution space has been bounded using a set of 20 realistic constraints. This way performing the same analysis with more realistic constraint model of the bearing, increases the feasibility and reliability of the optimized solutions. The results obtained from the genetic algorithm and the grid search method for the dynamic capacity of the bearing were compared to make a evaluate performance of two approaches. The simulation is performed on a series of selected ACBBs. Using the GA, for 7006 ACBB 83% improvement in its dynamic capacity over its rated values has been achieved, while using the GSM improvement is 43%. However, time taken by the GA over the GSM is one-sixth. A sensitivity analysis is done to check the most affecting parameters for the selected objective function. The present methodology helps the designers to reduce the design time, and select the optimum values of design parameters for manufacturing the custom bearing by prioritizing a specific objective.
[122] Ouyang, Qiumeng,Zhuang, Xiaoying,Rabczuk, Timon ,等.Implementation of Three-Dimensional Contact Algorithm in Numerical Manifold Method for the Structural Impact Simulation[J].SSRN,2024,SSRN
摘要：Structural impact often accompanies large amounts of contacts and leads to complex mechanical phenomena. In structural mechanics, the numerical manifold method (NMM) has been proposed specially for the solution of continuous-discontinues characteristics based on dual manifold of mathematical and physical covers. In the present work, according to cover-based contact theory, a penalty contact algorithm for 3DNMM is programmed and applied for the impact mechanical problems. The accuracy of the developed contact algorithm is firstly calibrated through free-falling blocks and collision blocks. The influence of contact parameters on contact convergence is systematically studied, and three preliminary criteria for how to set contact parameters are provided. The effectiveness of the contact algorithm is verified based on the conservation of system momentum during two block collision. Subsequently, the contact algorithm is applied to Tylor rod and car-streetlight simulation, which further verifies the effectiveness of the present contact algorithms in modeling high-speed collisions, large displacements, and large deformations of structures. By comparing the 3DNMM results with Abaqus results, the contact algorithm developed here has outstanding performance in solving collision problems and has achieved results that are consistent with commercial software. The research results in the present work verified the applicability and accuracy of the proposed contact algorithm in solving structural dynamic impact problems. The present work also provides a guidance in contact parameter setting in impact problems. © 2024, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[123] Luo, Haitao,Li, Yuxin,Yu, Changshuai ,等.Numerical and experimental analysis of nonlinear static and dynamic stiffness of angular contact ball bearing[J].Nonlinear Dynamics,2023,111 (3):2281-2309,SPRINGER
摘要：In this study, based on ball-raceway Hertz point contact theory, mathematical models of the static and dynamic stiffnesses of angular contact ball bearings are established by introducing geometric dimension data and load distribution parameters. The nonlinear stiffnesses of the 60TAC120B angular contact ball bearing were calculated by the Newton-Raphson algorithm. For the static stiffness, the radial and axial stiffnesses for different external loads were obtained. The errors between the exact calculation method and the traditional empirical formula method were compared. For dynamic stiffness, the radial and axial stiffnesses for different rotational speeds were obtained under a defined external load. To verify the accuracy of the above theoretical calculation, the nonlinear contact finite-element method was used to accurately simulate the static and dynamic stiffnesses. Finally, an experimental study on the static and dynamic nonlinear stiffnesses was carried out using custom stiffness test equipment. In addition, the results of theoretical calculations, numerical simulations, and experiments were compared. The results showed that the stiffness model of the ball-raceway Hertz point contact theory was too ideal and deviated significantly from the experimental data curve. The finite-element numerical simulation method was not restricted by the channel control theory of the bearing rings, and the obtained results were closer to the measured values. This study provides the conditions for the analysis of the working accuracy of large, heavy-duty equipment affected by the joint stiffness, and it has important theoretical and practical significance.
[124] Thibault Ghesquière-Diérickx,Jean-François Molinari,Guillaume Anciaux .Stability of extrinsic cohesive-zone model with penalty-based contact in explicit dynamic fragmentation simulations[J].Mechanics of Materials,2026,215 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Dynamic fragmentation simulations are essential for predicting material response at high strain rates, yet explicit dynamic simulations that combine an extrinsic cohesive-zone model (CZM) with penalty-based contact often exhibit severe instabilities. In a two-dimensional benchmark, we observe exponential energy growth and resulting artificial fragmentation under standard contact penalty settings and time step choices, which motivates a systematic analysis of instability sources. Three mechanisms are isolated and quantified: (i) diverging initial cohesive stiffness, which constrains the stable time step; (ii) discontinuous stiffness jumps at the cohesive–contact interface; and (iii) discontinuity introduced by cohesive softening. Analytical error estimates, phase-space diagnostics, and energy growth metrics reveal that repeated cohesive–contact switching can accumulate small per-step energy errors into long-term energy drift. Within the explored parameter space, maintaining stability requires time steps well below the usual limit. To mitigate these energy artifacts, we assess an adaptive penalty strategy that ties the contact stiffness to the evolving cohesive stiffness. This modification eliminates the discontinuity and restores energy conservation, but it allows larger interpenetration, making it suitable as a diagnostic rather than a definitive remedy. Overall, our study identifies the root causes of unphysical energy drift and demonstrates that penalty-based contact is not a viable approach for long-term, energy-consistent fragmentation simulations with physically meaningful fragment statistics.
[125] Jin, Jing,Zhou, Yueting,Ding, Shenghu .Dynamic contact response of piezoelectric semiconductors under vibration load[J].Acta Mechanica,2026,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：The research of the contact vibration characteristics of piezoelectric semiconductors is crucial for the realization and optimization of functions such as energy conversion and signal sensing. This investigation analyzes the axisymmetric dynamic response of a semi-infinite piezoelectric semiconductor medium under localized loading from a spherical rigid indenter. Through the use of perturbation techniques and Hankel integral transformations, the dynamic contact pressure distribution and contact displacement are derived. Additionally, the dynamic contact stiffness (DCS) is obtained based on displacement boundary conditions. The numerical analysis section explores the effects of factors such as vibration frequency, contact displacement, internal friction coefficient, piezoelectric effect, semiconductor effect, and material constants on the DCS factor. The results show that the presence of the piezoelectric and semiconductor effects increases the contact stiffness of piezoelectric semiconductor materials and accelerates energy dissipation. Compared to the piezoelectric constant and carrier concentration, the elastic constant has a more significant impact on the DCS factor. The findings provide a theoretical foundation for the mechanical response of piezoelectric semiconductor materials in practical contact and vibration environments and offer valuable references for optimizing their performance and applications.
[126] Bing Yuan,Jinlong Wang,Bing Han ,等.A novel mathematical model to capture the 3D dynamic contact state of gear pairs considering system flexibility[J].Mechanism and Machine Theory,2025,209 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The inevitable elastic deformation and vibration displacement of components can cause gear mesh misalignment (MM) in gear systems, thereby affecting the actual contact state of gear pairs and system dynamic performance. A novel three-dimensional (3D) dynamic gear contact model is proposed in this study for determining the 3D dynamic contact state of gear pairs considering system flexibility. By combining the loaded tooth contact analysis (LTCA) model with the MM calculation approach proposed in our published work, a proxy model for dynamic mesh excitations of gear pairs with system flexibility is developed for improving the solution efficiency. An efficient solution method of the proposed dynamic gear contact model is established through coupling the proxy model of dynamic mesh excitations and Newmark numerical integration method. It is conducted in-depth research on the influences of input speed, shaft parameters and gear installation position on dynamic MM and dynamic contact stress (CS), dynamic composite mesh stiffness (CMS) and dynamic composite mesh error (CME), as well as dynamic mesh force (DMF) and dynamic transmission error (DTE) of gear pairs.
[127] 王嗣强,薛一桢,Michael Zhuravkov ,等.凹形多面体离散单元的水平集函数接触算法[J].计算力学学报,2022,39 (3):291-298,Editorial Office of Chinese Journal of Computational Mechanics
摘要：多面体模型理论上可构造任意颗粒形态,然而受单元接触算法的限制,仅用于凸形颗粒材料的离散元模拟。对于具有凹形特征的多面体单元,单个接触点的搜索算法难以精确计算单元间的作用力。考虑多面体单元间存在单个或多个接触点的计算特性,本文发展了适用于凸形和凹形多面体颗粒材料的水平集函数接触算法。该方法通过点-三角形单元距离计算方法和奇-偶数判定方法建立多面体单元的零水平集函数和空间水平集函数,并对水平集函数进行三线性插值,可得到多面体单元间的单个或多个接触点。为检验水平集函数接触算法的可靠性,对球形和凹形多面体颗粒材料的堆积和倒塌过程进行离散元模拟,并分析颗粒形状对堆积密度和休止角的影响规律。
[128] 王永亮,赵广,徐永强 ,等.不对中多浮动花键接触刚度识别及动力学应用[J].航空动力学报,2025,40 (4):110-118,Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (BUAA)
摘要：针对多浮动花键在不对中状态下接触刚度识别困难的问题,提出一种基于试验和薄层单元仿真的接触刚度识别方法。建立以薄层单元为基础的传动杆固有特性仿真模型,结合传动杆固有频率试验数据构建多浮动花键刚度识别函数,进而准确识别多浮动花键接触刚度,获得浮动花键接触刚度随扭矩和不对中的变化规律。结果表明:扭矩增加会增强浮动花键副的整体接触刚度,不对中角度增加会减小花键接触刚度。在低扭矩时,不对中对花键刚度的削弱作用明显;在高扭矩时,扭矩对花键刚度的增强作用明显。用薄层单元代替花键接触面接触刚度,可以比较准确地计算花键在不同接触状态下的模态频率。研究结果为对浮动花键接触刚度的准确识别提供一定参考,可直接应用到系统动力学分析中。
[129] Seok, Seungwook,Shahriar, Adnan,Montoya, Arturo ,等.A finite element approach for simplified 2D nonlinear dynamic contact/impact analysis[J].Archive of Applied Mechanics,2023,93 (9):3511-3531,SPRINGER
摘要：In this paper, a simplified numerical approach for finite element dynamic analysis of an inelastic solid structure subjected to solid object impact is presented. The approach approximates the impacting solid as the selected multiple nodes, for which mass of the impactor is distributed. The node-to-segment contact formulation with the penalty constraint technique incorporated is employed to impose contact conditions between the nodes and the surface of the receiver structure. The node-to-segment algorithm is integrated into Newton-Raphson time integration scheme and the Lagrange multiplier technique is applied to enforce the identical displacements for the selected nodes throughout the analysis process. The approach is verified using two-dimensional plane strain models considering elastic-perfectly-plastic material behavior. The results obtained using the proposed approach are in a good agreement with those simulated using a commercial finite element code, ABAQUS dynamic/implicit, in terms of displacements and stress distribution fields. The proposed approach is shown to be computationally superior to general finite element method-based contact/impact analysis without significantly sacrificing the accuracy.
[130] Fan, Huilong,Long, Jun,Liu, Limin ,等.Dynamic Digital Twin and Online Scheduling for Contact Window Resources in Satellite Network[J].IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics,2023,19 (5):7217-7227,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：The contact window scheduling technology supports various space mission requirements of the satellite information network. The continuous emergence of new space missions challenges the scarce satellite contact window scheduling. In this article, We propose a dynamically updated microcloud structure based on digital twin and multiagent system technology. Then, we build an on-satellite autonomous scheduling model based on the microcloud structure and design an efficient solution algorithm to solve the maximum revenue problem of inefficient task scheduling caused by the dynamic change of task priority and satellite position over time. Simulation experiments show that the scheme proposed in this article can significantly improve task scheduling revenue and resource utilization, and have specific enlightening significance for the innovation of satellite task scheduling methods in the future.
[131] Shuaiyu Pang,Siqi Guo,Haibo Zhang ,等.A dynamic model of three-point contact ball bearings integrated with a finite element flexible cage model[J].Tribology International,2026,218 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In three-point contact ball bearings (TPCBB), the collision between balls and pockets play an important role in bearing dynamic performance. On one hand, the collision force may cause the cage to deform, which in turn will change the collision force. On the other hand, the collision force causes changes in the stress distribution of the cage, which may lead to fatigue failure of the cage. However, most existing models have ignored these effects. A new bearing dynamic model integrating a finite element cage model is established, which can comprehensively consider the pocket and cage deformation. The model is validated via commercial finite element software and experiments. In comparison with the rigid cage model, the effect of cage flexibility on the dynamic behavior of the bearing is examined through key parameters such as the actual pocket clearance, strain energy, and curvature radius of the contact area. The proposed model offers potential benefits for optimizing cage structure and mitigating cage failures in TPCBBs.
[132] Imane Ouakil,Benyattou Benabderrahmane,Yamna Boukhatem .Well-posedness and exponential stability of a dynamic frictionless contact problem with normal compliance and infinite memory[J].Applied Mathematics(A Journal of Chinese Universities),2026,41 (1):99-119,Springer Nature Singapore
摘要：A model for dynamic frictionless contact between a viscoelastic body and foundation is *** viscoelastic constitutive law is assumed to be nonlinear and the contact is modelled with the normal compliance *** obtain the well-posedness using nonlinear semigroup theory ***,the exponential stability result of the solution is shown by using the energy method to produce a suitable Lyapunov function.
[133] 姚其莹,龙隆,程士桐 ,等.移动接触线动力学模型与界面追踪方法研究进展[J].石油化工应用,2025,44 (9):1-5,11
摘要：移动接触线问题涉及流体界面在固体表面上的移动和形变,移动接触线研究涵盖了生物医学、石油开采、多孔介质渗流等领域。精确模拟移动接触线对于理解和预测各种物理现象具有重要意义。随着计算技术的发展,多种动力学模型结合界面追踪方法被提出来解决这一挑战。本文综述了解决移动接触线问题的动力学模型和界面追踪方法,介绍了多种用于描述移动接触线现象的数学模型。这些模型考虑了流体间的相互作用,引入了表面张力、黏性力以及滑移效应等因素。界面追踪方法在捕捉移动接触线的动态行为以及界面演变具有重要的作用,本文分析了多种用于解决移动接触线问题的界面追踪方法,展示了当前在移动接触线问题研究中的技术进展。
[134] Ryali, Lokaditya,Talbot, David .A Contact Load Distribution Model to Capture the Influence of Structurally Compliant Rotating Ring Gear on the Dynamic Response of Epicyclic Gear Sets[J].Journal of Vibration and Acoustics,2023,145 (4):041005,ASME
摘要：Epicyclic gears, also commonly referred to as planetary gears, are power transfer components that are commonly used in several industrial applications. The structural compliance of thin-rimmed annular ring gear can significantly influence the performance of an epicyclic gear set. As powertrain components are continually being optimized to their design limits, this influence becomes prominent and can no longer be ignored. Therefore to capture the influence associated with ring gear flexibility, the current study will incorporate a finite element-based ring gear formulation into the three-dimensional planetary dynamic load distribution model (Ryali, and Talbot, 2021, "A Dynamic Load Distribution Model of Planetary Gear Sets," Mech. Mach. Theory, 158, p. 104229). The proposed contact model employs a modified simplex algorithm to iteratively solve for the elastic gear mesh contacts in conjunction with a numerical integration scheme, which enables it to inherently capture the influence of several components and system-level design variations without the need for an empirical mesh stiffness formulation or transmission error excitation of the system. The developed formulation will be used to study the dynamic response of planetary gear sets where the ring gear is a rotating member. The discussed results demonstrate the fidelity of the developed model, thus making it an excellent tool for the design and analysis of planetary gears.
[135] Wang, Jianbin,Song, Chunyuan,Zhang, Dafu ,等.Fast and Stable Iterative Algorithm for Searching Wheel-Rail Contact Point Based on Geometry Constraint Equations[J].Journal of Computational and Nonlinear Dynamics,2023,18 (1):011004,ASME
摘要：This paper proposes a fast and stable iterative algorithm for wheel-rail contact geometry based on constraint equations, which can be implemented in dynamic wear simulations that real-time profile updating is needed. Further, critical factors that determine convergence and iteration stability are analyzed. A B-spline is adopted for wheel-rail profile modeling because it does not contribute to changes in the global shape of curves. It is found that the smoothness of the first and second derivative curves significantly affects the numerical stability of the Jacobian matrix, which determines the increments in iterations. Moreover, a damped Newton's iteration formula with a scaling factor of 0.5 is proposed considering the convergence rate and out-of-bound issues for the updated step. The influence of the initial iteration parameters on the convergence is studied using Newton fractals. The range within +/- 3mm, centered on the target contact point, is found to be an unconditionally stable domain. The proposed method could achieve convergence within 10 and 30 steps under thread and flange contact conditions, respectively.
[136] Jingyuan Zhang,Hailong Li,Zhifan Zhang ,等.Dynamic behavior of deep-sea floor drill rigs under the rheological contact force[J].Ocean Engineering,2026,352, Part 2 (P2),Elsevier Science
摘要：The landing of the deep-sea floor drill rig is a crucial step in its underwater deployment prior to operation. However, traditional Kelvin models fail to accurately describe the rheological behaviors of sediments during the landing impact process. To address this limitation, this paper proposes an improved contact force model that innovatively incorporates the Zener model—capable of characterizing rheological phenomena such as relaxation and creep effects of sediments. The validity of the proposed model is verified through comparison with experimental data, and the maximum fitting error is reduced by 80.45% compared with the traditional Kelvin model. A dynamic model of the deep-sea floor drill rig under rheological contact forces is established using MATLAB. The dynamic interaction (including loading, unloading, and rebound) between the drill rig and the seabed is characterized by defining the motion cycle and three force-bearing phases. This enables the prediction of the drill rig's dynamic parameters under rheological contact forces and resolves the dynamic calculation challenge associated with its landing process. Finally, the effects of landing velocity and drill rig mass on the dynamic parameters and the duration proportion of the three phases are investigated. In addition, the influence of rheological sediment parameters on the extreme dynamic values of the drill rig is analyzed, and it is found that sediment stiffness exerts the most significant effect on these extreme values. Then, Two-factor analysis of variance (ANOVA) is employed to evaluate the drill rig's dynamic behavior under the combined influence of landing velocity and mass, and the safe landing parameter range is determined. This study provides a theoretical reference for the structural design and safety validation of deep-sea floor drill rigs.
[137] Zhipeng Dong,Haitao An,Jiamei Jin ,等.Contact dynamic modeling of hollow-type ultrasonic motor considering the microscopic viscous effect[J].Ultrasonics,2026,165 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A microscopic contact model for annular traveling wave ultrasonic motors (ATWUMs) is proposed in this paper, aiming to deeply investigate the dynamic contact behavior between the stator and rotor as well as their friction-driven mechanisms. Compared with traditional contact models of annular traveling wave ultrasonic motors, the LuGre’s microscopic dynamic friction theory is introduced into this model, and the influence of the stator tooth structure is fully taken into account. Additionally, estimation methods for key parameters in the contact model are provided. Based on this model, systematic analysis and evaluation of the normal stress, tangential stress, and mechanical output characteristics within the motor are conducted. Subsequently, the torque-speed characteristics of the prototype are measured through experiments and compared with the simulation results. Experimental results show that the simulated values are highly consistent with the measured ones, thereby validating the effectiveness of the proposed microscopic contact model. To further evaluate the model performance, a comparative analysis between this model and traditional contact models that use Coulomb’s law of friction while neglecting the influence of stator teeth (assuming continuous tooth surfaces) is performed. The comparison results indicate that the proposed model is recognized as superior to traditional models in terms of accuracy.
[138] 张放歌,赵自强,王文中 .变载荷作用下的角接触球轴承动力学分析[J].轴承,2024
摘要：为研究球轴承在变载荷作用下的动力学行为,建立了角接触球轴承的动力学模型,并在不同的载荷谱下进行了角接触球轴承的动力学计算,对比了不同载荷谱作用下球与内外圈的接触角和接触载荷以及球的自转角速度和公转角速度随时间的变化。结果表明:载荷瞬时变化产生的冲击会导致球与内外圈的接触载荷和接触角发生突变,且变化幅度与冲击载荷大小相关;在受载荷冲击后,球的自转角速度和公转角速度也会发生突变,并且随轴承的转动,球的自转角速度和公转角速度会最终达到一个稳定值;载荷变化幅度越大,变化频率越快,轴承运动的变化幅度就越大。
[139] Al-Shareef, Amer,Park, Joontaek,Neogi, Parthasakha ,等.Asymptotic analysis of viscoelastic effects on dynamic contact angles at high shear rates[J].Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter,2026,38 (6):065001-065001,IOP Publishing Ltd
摘要：When a non-Newtonian liquid, such as a polymer solution, displaces air on a flat solid surface, the contact angle between the liquid-air and liquid-solid interfaces exhibits dynamic behavior that depends on the surface velocity and the fluid's rheological properties. Recent experimental data indicate that normal stress approaches a constant value at very high shear rates. In this study, we analyze the high-shear-rate behavior of the system by solving the equations of motion to obtain film profiles and dynamic contact angles, incorporating both shear thinning and normal stress effects. The rheological model is extended to reflect the asymptotic behavior of normal stresses, enabling accurate prediction of contact angles at high shear rates for the first time. Comparison with experimental measurements further allows estimation of the constant normal stress values in these systems.
[140] 梁栋,江鹏,李明 ,等.基于Adams的圆弧-抛物线构型点接触齿轮动力学分析研究[J].机械传动,2024,48 (3):1-9
摘要：以圆弧-抛物线构型点接触齿轮为研究对象,结合Adams动力学分析软件,深入研究了其动力学性能及相关特性变化规律。首先,基于空间曲面啮合基本原理,推导了圆弧-抛物线构型点接触齿轮的齿面方程,依据给定设计参数,建立了啮合齿轮副的三维模型;其次,基于Adams建立圆弧-抛物线构型点接触齿轮虚拟样机,仿真后得到齿轮法向接触力、周向力、径向力和轴向力的变化规律,对比分析了同参数、工况下圆弧-抛物线构型点接触齿轮和普通渐开线斜齿轮的法向接触力变化规律以及啮合刚度对齿轮法向接触力的影响。研究结果表明,圆弧-抛物线构型点接触齿轮的动态性能在一定程度上优于同参数、同工况下的普通渐开线斜齿轮,传动更平稳;啮合刚度对圆弧-抛物线构型点接触齿轮的动态性能有一定的影响,在合理的范围内啮合刚度越大,齿轮的传动越平稳。研究结论可为圆弧-抛物线构型点接触齿轮的设计提供依据。
[141] Zheng-Shun Su,Chien-Chia Liu,Chuin-Shan Chen ,等.Arc forward intersection decomposition: an exact and efficient algorithm for convex polyhedral contact detection[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2026,192 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Contact detection between convex polyhedra is a central challenge in discrete element method (DEM) simulations. The common plane (CP) approach provides a rigorous framework, and the non-iterative CP formulation by Chang and Chen (2008) guarantees exact solutions. However, its direct implementation has been hindered by high computational complexity. To overcome this bottleneck, this paper introduces the Arc Forward Intersection Decomposition (AFID) algorithm, a novel procedure that achieves both exactness and efficiency in CP contact detection. AFID reduces the complexity of Gaussian map merging to near-linear order by selectively decomposing arc intersections through localized searches based on control vertex data. Numerical experiments demonstrate that AFID consistently identifies the true global maximum of the gap function while significantly reducing computational time, outperforming traditional iterative schemes that are prone to local extrema. Moreover, AFID is especially advantageous for geometrically complex models because it focuses only on the arc intersections that determine contact. By enabling exact and scalable polyhedral contact detection, AFID establishes a robust foundation for large-scale DEM simulations and for constructing benchmark datasets with ground truth, which are essential for advancing AI-based approaches to contact modelling.
[142] Kamran, Muhammad,Liu, Hongyuan,Fukuda, Daisuke ,等.Insights Into the Dynamic Fracturing Behaviours of Rocks Under Multiaxial Static and Dynamic Coupled Loads Through 3D FDEM With Various Contact Algorithms and Cohesive Zone Models[J].International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics,2026,50 (4):1969-2005,WILEY
摘要：Finite-discrete element method (FDEM) has become a widely recognised numerical method for simulating the fracturing behaviour of materials under various loading conditions. However, the substantial computational cost of three-dimensional (3D) FDEM has led to a marked imbalance: extensive research exists on two-dimensional (2D) FDEM, while studies on 3D FDEM remain limited. This study investigates the dynamic fracture behaviours of rocks under multiaxial static and dynamic coupled loads, utilising a self-developed 3D FDEM parallelised based on a general-purpose graphics processing unit (GPGPU). The 3D FDEM incorporates both intrinsic and extrinsic cohesive zone models (ICZM and ECZM) as well as various contact interaction algorithms to facilitate robust simulation of a full-scale triaxial Hopkinson pressure bar (Tri-HB) testing system. Dynamic uniaxial and biaxial compression (UC and BC) tests within the Tri-HB framework are modelled with different combinations of cohesive zone models and contact algorithms, and the results are compared against each other and against laboratory experiments reported in the literature. The simulations demonstrate that the 3D FDEM with all these models and algorithms can reasonably capture the stress wave propagations in both metal bars and rocks as well as the primary dynamic fracturing behaviours of rocks under the coupled static and dynamic loads. However, computing accuracy and efficiency vary across model combinations. Overall, the 3D FDEM with the ECZM achieves the highest accuracy and efficiency.
[143] Lukas Bürger,Régis Boukadia,Frank Naets .A reduced order modeling strategy for nonlinear elasto-dynamic systems with cyclic symmetry in rolling contact[J].Journal of Sound and Vibration,2026,626 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Rolling contact is frequently modeled for simulating engineering systems (e.g. tires or bearings). When accounting for geometric and material nonlinearity, model order reduction (MOR) becomes essential to reduce the computational costs of dynamic simulations. Addressing nonlinear systems with distributed nonlinearities in combination with large areas of rough surface contact and a dynamically changing active set presents a challenge for state-of-the-art MOR methods. Therefore, a tailored a-priori MOR approach to address large deformation rolling contact for cyclically symmetric systems is presented.
[144] 赵宝旭,姚廷强,钱建伟 ,等.薄壁四点接触球轴承-腕部关节系统接触动力学分析[J].机电工程,2024,41 (5):870-877
摘要：在机器人实际工况中,针对含有薄壁四点接触球轴承的机器人腕部关节系统的运动稳定性问题,对腕部系统模型进行了简化设计和仿真研究。在考虑薄壁结构的弹性变形和动态接触作用耦合影响的基础上,建立了刚柔耦合工业机器人腕部关节系统模型,分析了不同受载工况和正反转驱动下的变形规律和动态特性。首先,基于多体动力学和Hertz接触理论,设计了包含薄壁四点接触球轴承和中空轴及基座的腕部关节系统刚柔耦合接触动力学仿真模型;然后,考虑薄壁中空轴、基座、轴承套圈和保持架的结构弹性变形、钢球和套圈滚道、保持架的动态接触作用,研究了机器人腕部关节系统两种实际工况对保持架和钢球角速度、保持架和薄壁基座振动位移、钢球与套圈的动态接触力的影响;最后,计算分析了两种工况下腕部关节系统的动态载荷规律和振动响应特性。研究结果表明:在相对较大的径向载荷作用下,保持架和钢球会出现打滑现象,速度呈现周期波动,保持架和基座具有更好的运动稳定性,其薄壁轴承内部载荷降低,主副接触对均承担联合载荷,轴承内部载荷稳定性也更好。该仿真模型及结果可以为薄壁腕部关节系统的动力学分析与设计提供参考。
[145] Yao, Huaibo,Liang, Lei,Ma, Wenlai ,等.An enhanced continuous contact force model for deployable structures with clearance joints: Validation, simulation, and dynamic characteristics[J].Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers,Part C: Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science,2025,239 (1):19-37,SAGE PUBLICATIONS LTD
摘要：Joint clearance is inevitable and affects the dynamic characteristics of deployable structures in orbit. An accurate contact force model can improve the dynamic modeling accuracy of deployable structures. This work proposes and validates an enhanced contact force model for modeling deployable structures with clearance joints. First, an enhanced continuous contact force model is presented based on a hybrid theoretical and numerical static cylindrical contact force model with a modified hysteresis damping factor obtained by reassessing energy and momentum transduction during the impact process. Subsequently, the proposed model's validity is established through comparisons with results from the finite element method. Finally, dynamic simulations for planar deployable structures demonstrate the applicability of the proposed model. The dynamic characteristics of the structures with clearance joints are studied. Results indicate that the proposed model is a reasonable approach for evaluating contact forces during the impact process of clearance joints, which undeniably influence the dynamic characteristics of deployable structures. External loads further affect the dynamic characteristics, and the clearance joints exhibit distinct contact modes, warranting further investigation. This work is vital for designing and analyzing high-precision space deployable structures in orbit.
[146] Hao Su,TianYuan Guan,Shuai Wang ,等.The pinball contact algorithm for the material point method[J].Computational Particle Mechanics,2025,12 (6):4795-4811,Elsevier Science
摘要：The material point method (MPM) has the advantages of no mesh distortion and high computational efficiency in numerical simulation of impact problems. The contact algorithm is an essential part of accurately simulating impact problems. The traditional grid-based contact algorithm for the MPM cannot deal well with thin-walled structures or little fragments due to the inaccurate normal direction of the contact surface. A pinball contact algorithm is presented for the MPM. Each material point is considered equivalent to a pinball of the same volume, and the contact forces are directly calculated by contact pairs instead of from the background grid nodes. The calculation of mass gradient is not needed for normal direction in the pinball contact algorithm. Therefore, the pinball contact algorithm can fully avoid the problems caused by inaccurate normal direction of the contact surface such as the reduction in computation accuracy and non-physical particle penetration. Multiple background grids are used to accelerate the searching for possible contact pairs, and the pinball contact algorithm demonstrates the capability to handle multi-body contact problems. Several examples demonstrate nice accuracy and advantages of the pinball contact algorithm.
[147] Xu, Xinye,Shu, Xujian .Non-Contact Voltage Measurement Method for Transmission Lines Based on Improved Genetic Algorithm[J].Electronics,2026,15 (5),MDPI
摘要：Voltage status monitoring of transmission lines is critical for the safe operation of power systems. Traditional contact-based measurement methods pose safety risks and incur high costs. Therefore, this paper proposes a non-contact voltage Measurement method by inferring the actual voltage level of transmission lines. Firstly, the spatial electric field strength is constructed based on the simulated charge method. Then, the voltage of transmission lines is inverted according to the near-surface electric field strength. By incorporating Tikhonov regularization with multi-physical condition constraints and multi-start optimization strategies into traditional genetic algorithms, the instability issues in electric field inversion methods are resolved. The results indicate that under a 5% measurement noise, the voltage amplitude error is below 5%, and the phase error is less than 5 degrees. The proposed improved genetic algorithm enhances the stability and reliability of the inversion process, providing an effective solution for voltage state monitoring of transmission lines.
[148] Yue Xiong,Song Liu,Minghui Gong ,等.Triaxial contact stress characterization for autonomous rail rapid transit pavements using coupled vehicle-pavement dynamic simulation[J].International Journal of Solids and Structures,2026,327 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Autonomous Rail Rapid Transit (ART) systems subject pavements to exceptional loading conditions that represent primary mechanisms of structural deterioration. Accurate characterization of tire-pavement dynamic contact stresses is essential for structural analysis and performance prediction of ART pavement. Conventional asphalt pavement analysis relies on simplified static uniform circular load assumptions, systematically neglecting dynamic loading characteristics and non-uniform contact stress distributions. Current methodologies inadequately capture the coupled effects of vehicle dynamics and heavy-load amplification factors. This study employs integrated finite element-TruckSim co-simulation to quantify three-dimensional non-uniform contact stress fields under static, steady-state, and emergency braking scenarios for ART vehicles. The coupled modeling framework incorporates vehicle dynamics corrections to establish comprehensive tire-pavement interaction characterization. Results demonstrate that three-dimensional tire-pavement contact forces exhibit parabolic-to-trigonometric distribution patterns across the contact interface. Under static conditions, axle load exerts dominant influence over contact force magnitude, substantially exceeding tire pressure effects. Contact forces show minimal sensitivity to velocity variations during steady-state operation, while emergency braking induces significant stress amplification up to 13.0%, with heavy-load configurations substantially intensifying stress concentration phenomena. The validated triaxial contact stress functions provide enhanced predictive capabilities for heavy-duty pavement design applications, with potential applications extending to industrial pavement systems under concentrated loading regimes.
[149] Xu, Jinghan,Xia, Shengguo,Chen, Lixue ,等.Analysis of Current Distribution on Armature and Rail Interface With Dynamic Contact[J].IEEE Transactions on Plasma Science,2025,53 (10):2769-2775,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：The armature and rail (A/R) interface is a dynamic imperfect electrical contact (ImPEC), involving varying contact pressure and areas. In this article, the contact pressure and current distributions on the dynamic convex A/R interface are studied with boundary conditions for dynamic ImPEC. The numerical results indicate that the contact pressure has a central distribution pattern, and the contact area variation trend is similar to the driving current. Current distributions on the dynamic A/R interface with different motion states are different. On the stationary interface, the current concentrates on the trailing edge at the beginning, diffuses to the leading edge during the flat stage, and concentrates on the leading edge as the contact area contracts with the decreasing driving current. However, the current concentrates on the trailing and side edges of the sliding interface throughout the whole stages under low-velocity conditions. Comparative calculations have been conducted to investigate current evolution patterns on dynamic contacts. Results suggest that both stationary and sliding interfaces exhibit significant current fluctuations on contact area boundaries, which are concluded as forced shifts of current caused by dynamic contacts.
[150] Tang, Rui,Gao, Lixia,Yu, Dan ,等.Analysis and verification of the quasi-dynamic model for the three-point contact ball bearing[J].航空动力学报,2024,39 (8),Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (BUAA)
摘要：In order to predict the three-point contact phenomenon and reduce the risk of abnormal wear,with the help of Newton-Euler vectorial mechanics,combining with the force and structure features,relative location and velocity relationship of internal element of the arched inner race ball bearing were described,the force of bearing parts,inertia force,gyroscopic torque,fluid drag force and extrusion force were considered in process of the arched inner race ball bearing quasi-dynamic modeling considering the three-point contact condition,the optimization of algorithm for solving nonlinear equations of the model was completed,and the accuracy of the model was validated by comparing with foreign mature software and test of the cage rotational speed. The results indicated that the proposed model had a maximum error of 12% for contact angle and contact stress distribution,and a maximum error of 2% for maximum contact stress,and also had high precision for the contact traces prediction,at the same time,the model had a maximum error of 10% for the cage rotational speed by the test validation,so that the model can be used for improving optimization design of the arched inner race ball bearing. © 2024 Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (BUAA). All rights reserved.
[151] Liu, Qihan,Wang, Luochang .Dynamic osmocapillary phase separation at contact lines[J].Soft Matter,2026,22 (1):167-177,ROYAL SOC CHEMISTRY
摘要：When a drop of liquid is placed on top of a swollen solid, if the liquid is immiscible with the solvent of the swollen solid, the surface tension near the contact line can pull the solvent out from the solid, leading to a phase separation that converts the classical three-phase contact line into a four-phase contact zone. This phase separation can significantly affect the wetting properties of the swollen solid and the effect is known to be time dependent. This paper develops a dynamic osmocapillary model which predicts that the size of the phase separation increases with time, following the scaling relation of t0.32. The prediction agrees well with existing experiments.
[152] Kang Chen,Liqin Wang,Maokuan Bao ,等.Dynamic stiffness analysis of angular contact ball bearings based on fully coupled bearing-rotor dynamic model[J].Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing,2026,253 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A fully coupled dynamic model of a ball bearing-rotor system is developed and experimentally validated to investigate the interaction between bearing internal dynamics and rotor vibration. The model resolves bearing contact forces and moments directly from internal dynamics, enabling the dynamic stiffness to evolve naturally with rotor motion. Results show that the dynamic stiffness of angular contact ball bearings exhibits pronounced non-stationary behavior, in which low-frequency variations induced by rotor load modulation coexist with high-frequency fluctuations transmitted through the rolling elements. These stiffness fluctuations demonstrate that bearing stiffness is continuously modulated by rotor dynamics rather than being an intrinsic local property. At high rotational speeds and low axial loads, additional inertial loads induced by rotor vibration significantly degrade effective bearing stiffness and destabilize ball-raceway contacts. Based on this mechanism, a stiffness-based criterion is proposed to characterize the limiting speed governed by internal bearing dynamics. Furthermore, stiffness variations have a limited influence on low-order rotor modes but strongly affect higher-order modes, leading to shifts in hazardous operating speed ranges and modulation of rotor vibration responses.
[153] Yu Chen,Fanglei Zhang,Guolai Yang .A time-varying contact dynamic modeling method of kinematic pairs based on digital twin[J].Measurement,2025,256 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In mechanical systems, the contact force and friction between components of kinematic pairs are influenced by dynamic factors such as external random excitation, wear on contact surfaces, manufacturing errors, etc., resulting in significant uncertainties and time-varying characteristics. Existing contact dynamic modeling methods of kinematic pairs mainly focus on the theoretical universality of the models, and the aforementioned uncertainties and time-varying characteristics have not yet received sufficient attention. Digital twin, a crucial enabler of information-physical integration, provide a new way to solve this problem. This paper analyzes the connotation of dynamic modeling of mechanical systems based on digital twin. A framework for digital twin-based time-varying contact dynamic modeling of kinematic pairs by integrating sensor data is proposed. The implementation of this framework is explored through theoretical model construction, dynamic data acquisition, feature extraction, and information-physical integration. Using gear transmission as a case study, the paper demonstrates the application of the proposed framework to digital twin-based time-varying dynamic modeling and validates its effectiveness. This research can improve the dynamic modeling accuracy of mechanical systems, thereby better serving the dynamic characteristics analysis and predictive maintenance of complex equipment.
[154] Yuankui Luo,Lixin Xu .Contact dynamic modeling and corner contact analysis of the spur gear pair with pitch deviations[J].Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing,2025,227 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Pitch deviations have a significant effect on the contact state, transmission accuracy and running stability of a gear pair. In this work, a contact dynamic model of a spur gear pair is established on the basis of the pitch deviations. This model consists of three parts: a geometric mathematical model, a time-varying mesh stiffness (TVMS) model, and a dynamic differential equation and contact model. In the first part, mathematical equations are used to represent the tooth profiles of the gear pair with pitch deviations, which lays a foundation for the subsequent assessment of contact. In the second part, considering pitch deviations and the accurate root transition curve, the tooth is simplified as a cantilever beam on the root circle, and the TVMS of the gear pair is deduced using the potential energy method. In the third part, the contact modes of the gear pair with pitch deviations are analyzed, which shows that corner contact may occur during meshing. A mathematical contact judgment method is then proposed to determine eight meshing points (normal meshing points and corner contact meshing points) that may arise in the meshing state. Finally, dynamic differential equations of the gear pair are established. On the basis of the proposed model, effects of different pitch deviations and the random pitch deviations upon the vibration acceleration and the dynamic transmission error (DTE) of the gear pair are studied. The accuracy of the proposed contact dynamic model of the gear pair with pitch deviations is verified by way of an experiment reported in the literature and self-test data. The proposed model and research results lay a foundation for research into performance analysis, design optimization and precision manufacturing.
[155] Zhijian Wang,Qingyu Xiao,Shijin Chen ,等.Thermo-dynamic behavior of double-row angular contact ball bearings with solid lubrication[J].Applied Mathematical Modelling,2026,157 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A fully coupled thermo-dynamic analysis is critical for predicting the dynamic characteristics of double-row angular contact ball bearings (DACBBs) in high-speed, solid-lubricated applications. In this study, a dynamic model of solid-lubricated DACBB considering thermal effects by thermal network is proposed. The bearing dynamics model is established from classical differential equations of motion of the bearing elements, which are fully coupled with thermal interactions. The resulting governing equations are solved numerically using the Runge-Kutta method. The cage trajectory, cage whirl motion, and interaction between bearing components are analyzed. The results demonstrate that DACBBs with two separate cages exhibit different dynamic characteristics in each row. Thermal expansion under fixed pre-deformation increases the actual axial load on both rows, thereby raising the ball-raceway contact load, reducing the slipping rate, and enhancing cage stability. However, it may also exacerbate outer ring rotation by enlarging the housing clearance. Moreover, increasing rotational speed intensifies heat generation and temperature rise while improving cage stability through thermally induced axial load, whereas the cage clearance ratio has a negligible effect on temperature but an influence on cage stability, with smaller clearances leading to more stable cage motion.
[156] Yu Chang,Jianguo Ding,Hui Fan ,等.Dynamic response influenced by joint contact uncertainties in complex machinery[J].Journal of Sound and Vibration,2025,602 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The contact characteristics of joints in complex machinery often exhibit uncertainty, directly affecting dynamic performance and stability. The principal scientific challenge is to establish a dynamic model for complex systems that accounts for the uncertain contact characteristics of joints. This study focuses on the uncertain contact mechanisms of joints distributed across complex systems, providing a new and efficient method for system dynamic analysis under joint uncertainty. The transfer matrix method for multibody systems and fractal theory are utilized to construct a dynamic model that integrates the three-dimensional contact micromechanics of joints with the macroscopic structural features of rigid-flexible coupled multibody systems. An improved interval arithmetic is developed to characterize uncertain contact behaviors. It incorporates the overall transfer principle and Taylor inclusion function to decouple interval operations from complicated computations, thereby effectively controlling interval expansion and enhancing computational accuracy. The proposed method is applied to an ultra-precision three-axis single-point diamond machine tool and validated experimentally. Through orthogonal analysis, the impacts of different joints on the dynamic response of the ultra-precision machine tool are revealed, identifying key joints and critical contact factors. This approach significantly contributes to the forward design and dynamic optimization of complex machinery.
[157] An, Hong,Zhang, Xinwen,Sun, Zhenghu ,等.Fault dynamic modeling and vibration characteristics of motorized spindle systems with raceway defects in angular contact ball bearings[J].International Journal of Dynamics and Control,2026,14 (4):145-145,SPRINGERNATURE
摘要：Angular contact ball bearings (ACBBs) are supporting components in motorized spindles (MSs), and their condition directly affects the vibration characteristics and stability of the spindle system. However, existing research on MS dynamics is primarily based on healthy-bearing models, thereby overlooking the effects of bearing defects on system dynamic characteristics. To address this limitation, this study establishes a fault dynamic model of an MS system incorporating raceway defects in ACBBs and elucidates the influence of bearing condition on spindle vibration characteristics. A dynamic model of the housing-bearing-spindle-tool system is established using the Timoshenko beam element formulation. Defect-induced nonlinearities are coupled into the global model via nonlinear bearing support forces, enabling accurate representation of complex nonlinear dynamic behavior. A dynamic model of ACBBs with raceway defects is further developed based on Hertz contact theory. A sinusoidal displacement excitation is introduced to simulate the time-varying defect interactions, enabling systematic characterization of bearing life cycle vibration evolution from the healthy state through early fault to severe damage. The proposed model is validated using a self-developed MS experimental platform under varying operating conditions. The effects of raceway defects on MS dynamics and vibration characteristics are systematically investigated, and the mechanisms of defect-induced vibration are elucidated, providing theoretical guidance and experimental support for structural optimization and health management of MSs.
[158] Zhao, Haonan,Zhao, Xiaohua,Fang, Hongyuan ,等.Dynamic Response Study of Curved Polymer Sandwich Panels under Contact Explosion Load[J].International Journal of Structural Stability and Dynamics,2026,26 (18),WORLD SCIENTIFIC PUBL CO PTE LTD
摘要：To study the dynamic response of curved polymer sandwich panels under contact explosion loads, three deformation stages of curved polymer sandwich panels were analyzed. A single degree of freedom rigid plastic dynamic model was established. The bending moment and membrane force effects of the panel and sandwich on deformation were considered in the model. The dynamic response of curved polymer sandwich panels with different panel and sandwich thicknesses under contact explosion loads was calculated through numerical simulation. The mid-span displacement of the panel calculated based on the dynamic model is in good agreement with the numerical calculation results. On this basis, the deformation and velocity changes of the panels were further analyzed, and the force and motion of the panels and sandwich at each stage in the dynamic model were verified. Research has shown that increasing the thickness of panels and sandwich panels can enhance the blast resistance of curved polymer sandwich panels, and increasing the front thickness has a more significant effect on improving the blast resistance of sandwich panels, which can provide a reference for future structural design and engineering applications.
[159] Long, Hongfan,Han, Zhao,Jiang, Shuyun ,等.Dynamic error modeling, analysis and compensation of planar flexible multilink mechanism for high-speed precision presses considering the thermal expansion effect of sliding and angular contact ball bearings[J].Nonlinear Dynamics,2023,111 (22):20793-20819,SPRINGER
摘要：In order to study the dynamic position accuracy of bottom dead point (BDP) for multilink high-speed precision presses (MHSPPs), it's essential to develop a dynamic model of planar multilink mechanism. Traditional dynamic error models (DEMs) always neglect the thermal effect of angular contact ball bearing (ACBB), which reduces the prediction accuracy of DEM for multilink transmission mechanisms. To overcome the shortcomings of the previous models, a new contact model of revolute clearance joint considering thermal expansion effect is proposed in this paper. Then, a thermal network model (TNM) of ACBB lubricated by grease is built and the stiffness of ACBB considering the thermal expansion effect is derived. On this basis, an improved DEM of planar flexible multilink mechanism with clearance considering the thermal expansion effect of ACBB is developed. And the influence of crankshaft speed, contact angle of ACBB and clearance size on the position error of slider's BDP based on the improved DEM is analyzed. Compared to the simulation from traditional models, the simulated slider's BDP position error from the improved DEM agrees better with experimental data, which verifies the correctness of the proposed model. It's demonstrated that the punching force and thermally induced variable stiffness of bearing lead to a significant increase in the slider's BDP position error, which reduces the machining precision of MHSPP. Moreover, a novel compensation algorithm based on the improved DEM with online modification is proposed. Test results show that the root mean square (RMS) and maximum absolute values of the slider's BDP position error after compensation under no load condition are reduced by 98.06% and 96.20%, respectively, and can be reduced by 98.11% and 96.36%, respectively.
[160] Bui, Quang Hieu,Nguyen, Vinh Phu,de Vaucorbeil, Alban .A New Contact Algorithm for the Total-Lagrangian Material Point Method[J].International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering,2025,126 (17),WILEY
摘要：The Total Lagrangian Material Point Method (TLMPM) is a relatively new variant of the now popular MPM, a method to solve partial differential equations appearing in solid and fluid mechanics problems. In TLMPM, each solid has its own grid, and all calculations are carried out in a configuration of reference, often the original configuration. Because of this, TLMPM is free of numerical fracture, cell crossing instability and is efficient. An unfortunate result of having individual grids is that TLMPM does not have a built-in contact algorithm. Recently, a contact algorithm based on particle-to-particle contact was published for TLMPM. However, it scales quadratically with the number of particles and is therefore slow for a large number of particles. This paper introduces a new contact algorithm for TLMPM using a flexible contact grid. The advantages of this algorithm are: (1) all the advantages of TLMPM are kept, such as the absence of numerical fracture and good convergence rates;(2) the core principle of using a background grid in the material point method for contacts is preserved;(3) different basis functions can be used for each grid, and (4) boundary conditions can be enforced with more flexibility. The performance of the new algorithm is demonstrated through several two and three-dimensional numerical examples exhibiting large elastic and plastic deformation.
[161] Hu, Zhiwei,Ren, Jinlong,Wan, Lingyu ,等.A Self-Powered and Highly Sensitive Flexible Contact-Pressure Sensor for Dynamic Sensing Based on Graphene-Enhanced Hydrogel[J].Nanomaterials,2026,16 (8):453,MDPI
摘要：A self-powered graphene-enhanced hydrogel sensor (SGHS) with high contact-pressure sensitivity and mechanical robustness was developed for precise dynamic biomechanical and material contact sensing. The device generates transient electrical signals via contact electrification and electrostatic induction during contact-separation events, eliminating the need for any external power supply. The optimized SGHS achieves a maximum peak power density of 0.23 mW & centerdot;m-2, with contact-pressure sensitivities of 0.6 kPa-1 and 0.26 kPa-1 in the pressure ranges of 0.25-5 kPa and 5-25 kPa, respectively, which is competitive with or exceeds that of other externally powered and self-powered flexible dynamic stress sensors in the low-pressure range. Comprehensive analyses reveal that the pressure response originates from the enhanced piezodielectric effect in the graphene hydrogel layer under compression. The SGHS exhibits excellent mechanical durability, maintaining stable output after 10,000 loading-unloading cycles. Moreover, the pulse intensity, width, and waveform of its self-generated output provide distinctive features for identifying the type and surface characteristics of contacting objects. These results highlight SGHS as a promising candidate for next-generation intelligent, self-powered, and flexible dynamic sensing systems.
[162] Tao Peng,Rongqiang Liu,Chuang Shi ,等.Novel nonlinear dynamic modeling method and analysis of Truss-Hinge Deployable Arm considering hinge contact behavior[J].Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing,2025,236 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Truss Hinge Deployable Arms (THDAs) are lightweight, high-precision structures made of cables and beams connected by hinges, ideal for deployable space applications. The contact stiffness of the hinges, influenced by cable preload, significantly affects the THDA’s stiffness and stability. However, dynamic models that neglect hinge contact characteristics fail to accurate capture dynamic behaviors of THDA, and the discontinuous nature of hinge contact complicates modeling. This paper proposes a continuous dynamic modeling approach based on Equivalent Material Layer (EML), accounting for contact and geometric nonlinearities. A relationship between EML material parameters and hinge contact stiffness is established using strain energy conservation and fractal contact theory. The THDA’s nonlinear dynamic model replaces hinge contact characteristics with the EML. Dynamic experiments on truss units confirm the theoretical model, with a maximum error of 14.59% and a minimum error of 6.2%. Experimental results show strong consistency in the variation trend with the theoretical values. The impact of material and structural parameters on THDA dynamics is analyzed, showing that material parameters exhibit a monotonic relationship with the natural frequency, while structural parameters, influenced by geometric nonlinearity, without a consistent trend. Furthermore, the influence trends of these parameters on frequency evolve as the number of truss units and cable preload change. This study provides insights into reveal the effect of contact and geometric nonlinearities on natural frequency, offering a foundation for precise modeling, parameter optimization, and vibration suppression of cable-beam hinged structures.
[163] Shuyi Yang,Caichao Zhu,Ye Zhou ,等.Transient contact dynamic analysis of flexible-pin planetary gear transmission considering thermo-elastohydrodynamic lubrication[J].Tribology International,2026,222 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The flexible pin improves load sharing in planetary gear transmissions. However, the mechanistic influence of pin elasticity on transient contact dynamics under thermo-elasto-hydrodynamic lubrication remains unclear. This study develops the transient contact dynamics model of planetary gear systems, integrating flexible pin deformation, thermo-elastohydrodynamic lubrication, and system vibration response. The effective dynamic solving strategy is developed using an enhanced precise integration method. Lastly, the model is validated using testing data. The results indicate that under steady torque conditions, reducing pin support stiffness, increasing lubricant pressure-viscosity coefficient, adopting XMP 320 synthetic lubricant, and higher lubricant viscosity can improve load distribution and suppress vibration. Under torque-transient, torque mutation, and random fluctuation conditions, the transient impact weakens the improvement effect of lubrication parameters, and the improved effect of pin stiffness and lubricant on vibration is significantly reduced.
[164] Louisa E. Kraft,Jens Lucht,Fiona Berner ,等.Dynamic Contact Angles on Moving Fibers Measured by X-ray Holography[J].Langmuir,2026,42 (15):10180-10186,American Chemical Society
摘要：Wetting of solid surfaces by a liquid is important for many natural and industrial processes, such as printing, painting, and coating. However, a quantitative description of the dynamic receding and advancing contact angle is still debated, in particular for aqueous solutions. One reason for our lack of quantitative understanding is the limited spatial resolution of currently used optical methods. We therefore present a new approach to access the submicroscopic region. We use X-ray phase contrast imaging to measure the dynamic receding contact angle on a moving glass fiber of 17 μm diameter. The fiber was pulled out of a liquid bath, which was filled with a mixture of glycerol and Milli-Q water. The dynamic receding contact angle decreased with increasing contact line velocity for all mixtures. In the holograms, we achieved a resolution of 50 nm/pixel with a spatial error of 450 nm. This spatial error is due to an extended surface region of the fiber and the liquid surface in the holograms. Our results demonstrate the feasibility of X-ray holography as a method to investigate dynamic contact angle phenomena and thereby open pathways to higher spatial and temporal resolution.
[165] Hongyang Xu,Jinyuan Tian .Dynamic interaction analysis of ball-cage-guide ring in high-speed angular contact ball bearings under combined loads[J].Applied Mathematical Modelling,2025,145 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：As critical supporting components in rotor systems, angular contact ball bearings play a pivotal role in maintaining operational stability. In high-speed applications, the structural parameters and loading conditions of these bearings significantly influence the ball-cage interactions, consequently affecting the dynamic performance of the cage. To systematically investigate the dynamic interaction characteristics among the balls, cage, and guide ring, a comprehensive nonlinear dynamic mathematical model has been developed for high-speed angular contact ball bearings under combined loads. This study further examines the influence of key operational and design parameters, including axial force, radial force, ball quantity, and clearance ratio, on the dynamic interaction characteristics between these components. The findings provide valuable insights and serve as an essential reference for the dynamic analysis and optimal design of high-speed angular contact ball bearings.
[166] Fullana, Tomas,Kulkarni, Yash,Fricke, Mathis ,等.A consistent treatment of dynamic contact angles in the sharp-interface framework with the Generalised Navier Boundary Condition[J].Journal of Fluid Mechanics,2026,1033 ,CAMBRIDGE UNIV PRESS
摘要：In this work, we revisit the Generalised Navier Boundary Condition (GNBC) introduced by Qian et al. in the sharp interface volume-of-fluid context. We replace the singular uncompensated Young stress by a smooth function with a characteristic width $\varepsilon \gt 0$ that is understood as a physical parameter of the model. Therefore, we call the model the 'contact region GNBC' (CR-GNBC). We show that the model is consistent with the fundamental kinematics of the contact angle transport described by Fricke, K & ouml;hne and Bothe. We implement the model in the geometrical volume-of-fluid solver Basilisk using a 'free angle' approach. This means that the dynamic contact angle is not prescribed, but reconstructed from the interface geometry and subsequently applied as an input parameter to compute the uncompensated Young stress. We couple this approach to the two-phase Navier-Stokes solver and study the withdrawing tape problem with a receding contact line. It is shown that the model allows for grid-independent solutions and leads to a full regularisation of the singularity at the moving contact line, which is in accordance with the thin film equation subject to this boundary condition. In particular, it is shown that the curvature at the moving contact line is finite and mesh converging. As predicted by the fundamental kinematics, the parallel shear stress component vanishes at the moving contact line for quasi-stationary states (i.e. for $\dot heta _d=0$ ), and the dynamic contact angle is determined by a balance between the uncompensated Young stress and an effective contact line friction. Furthermore, a nonlinear generalisation of the model is proposed, which aims at reproducing the molecular kinetic theory of Blake and Haynes for quasi-stationary states.
[167] 常乐浩,王佩蔺,黄绮笛 ,等.考虑齿背啮合的齿轮系统动态接触与动力学耦合分析[J].华南理工大学学报（自然科学版）,2024,52 (12):22-31
摘要：为更深入地研究齿背啮合对齿轮系统非线性动力学响应的影响,提出了一种考虑齿背啮合的齿面动态接触与系统动力学耦合分析方法。首先,通过分析齿背啮合机理,揭示了齿背啮合与正常啮合的模型差异及相位关系。然后,建立了考虑齿背啮合的齿轮系统动力学模型,并结合齿轮副动态承载接触分析(DLTCA)模型,提出了系统“激励—响应—反馈”闭环的动力学耦合分析方法。该方法不仅考虑了振动位移对齿面动态接触状态的反作用,还考虑了齿侧间隙、齿面误差等因素的影响,可得到更为真实的齿轮动态啮合刚度及系统响应。研究结果表明:齿背啮合主要影响系统降速阶段的振动,对升速阶段的影响并不明显;增大齿侧间隙会增大齿轮系统的主共振转速区间,且系统振动对齿侧间隙变化的敏感度会随着间隙的增大而减小;当齿侧间隙较小时,其主要通过齿背啮合来影响系统的非线性振动特性;齿背啮合不但会改变系统发生混沌的转速,而且会改变同一转速下的混沌状态。该文研究结果可为齿轮系统的非线性动力学控制提供一定的理论指导。
[168] Yan Hu,Pan-pan Huang,Feng Wen ,等.The influence of dynamic contact force amplitude and frequency on the friction and wear behavior of carbon strips[J].Tribology International,2026,215, Part A ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study examines the impact of dynamic contact force amplitude and frequency on the tribological behavior of a carbon strip within a C/Cu pair, utilizing a ring-block current-carrying friction tester. Arc discharge events were evaluated statistically based on their duration and energy. The wear mechanisms and surface morphology of the carbon strip were characterized using 3D profilometry, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS). The results show that the 6–8 ms and 8–10 ms arc events exhibit opposing trends in the cumulative discharge count and duration as a function of the dynamic contact force parameters (amplitude <em>A</em> and frequency <em>f</em>). The low-energy arc discharge event has a significant influence on the wear rate of the carbon strip. The carbon strip's wear rate correlates with the cumulative number of low-energy arc discharges, as both vary consistently with amplitude and frequency. Selecting an appropriate loading frequency for dynamic contact force helps suppress W-shape abnormal wear in carbon strips.
[169] Huan Zhao,Yu Feng,Jingjie Wang ,等.Phase-space and cross-recurrence insights into the dynamic consistency between friction coefficient and contact resistance in electrical sliding[J].Tribology International,2026,215, Part A ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Electrical sliding process dynamics and interrelations remain elusive. Here we revealed the nonlinear dynamic evolution of friction coefficient and contact resistance signals throughout electrical sliding based on phase space reconstruction, and examined their consistency, including similarity and synchronization, via cross-recurrence analysis. Results indicate that the phase trajectories of two signals evolve consistently, characterized by convergence, stabilization, initial divergence, and complete divergence, corresponding to running-in, steady-state, early degradation, and severe degradation states. Notably, cross recurrence plots with prominent, nearly symmetrical recurrence structures confirm the dynamic consistency between two signals, but only under identical operating conditions. This result is strongly supported by cross recurrence quantification analysis. Furthermore, the dynamic similarity between two signals is time-dependent, possibly due to intrinsic randomness variation in the respective chaos attractor. From an application perspective, the proposed deep learning models validate this consistency and quantitatively demonstrate the superiority of phase trajectories over time-domain features in identifying current-carrying friction states. Hence, current-carrying pairs can be effectively monitored via phase trajectory analysis of only one signal, streamlining the measurement configuration.
[170] Yang, Haisheng,Liu, Qiang,Deng, Si'er .Dynamic Characteristic Analysis of Angular Contact Ball Bearings with Two-Piece Inner Rings in Aero-Engine Main Shafts Under Unsteady-State Conditions[J].Lubricants,2025,13 (6),MDPI
摘要：The dynamic interactions among the internal components of aero-engine main shaft bearings under unsteady-state conditions are intricate, involving clearance collisions, contact, friction, and lubrication. The dynamic characteristics of bearings significantly influence the performance and stability of mechanical systems. This study establishes a rigid-flexible coupling dynamic model for angular contact ball bearings with two-piece inner rings based on Hertz contact theory and lubrication theory. It systematically analyzes the dynamic characteristics of bearings under the coupling effects of acceleration, deceleration, and impact load. This study explores the influence of various loads, bearing speeds, and groove curvature radius coefficients on the dynamic characteristics of bearings. The findings indicate that the uniform speed phase of a bearing is highly responsive to impact load, followed by the deceleration phase, while the acceleration phase shows lower sensitivity to impact load. The groove curvature radius coefficient significantly affects the contact stress between the ball and its corresponding raceway, with contact stress increasing as the groove curvature radius coefficient rises. As the axial load decreases and the radial load, bearing speed, and groove curvature radius coefficient increase, there is a rise in pocket force, guiding force, and maximum equivalent stress of the flexible cage. Impact load leads to short-term intense fluctuations in the thickness of the bearing oil film, which can be alleviated by an increase in axial load. The oil film thickness firstly increases and then decreases with respect to the groove curvature radius coefficient. Furthermore, variations in bearing speed notably influence the thickness of the bearing oil film. This study analyzes the dynamic characteristics of bearings under the coupling effects of acceleration, deceleration, and impact load, offering insights for the design and optimization of angular contact ball be
[171] Shi, Wenqing,Chen, Hongji,Ding, Shihao ,等.Effect of detachment velocity on the dynamic contact angles between bubble and glass plate with different contact angles[J].Physics of Fluids,2025,37 (8),AIP Publishing
摘要：In recent years, researchers have been dedicated to improving the understanding of detachment mechanisms to achieve efficient recovery of coarse particles. Traditional bubble detachment models are mostly based on quasi-static conditions and do not adequately account for the effect of detachment velocity. However, in practical flotation processes, there exist significant variations in particle detachment velocities, and the effect of these variations on detachment has not yet been systematically investigated. To address this, a customized bubble-glass plate detachment measurement system was employed to study the effect of detachment velocity on the dynamic contact angle during detachment. The classical Hoffman model for dynamic contact angle was modified, and a new formula for calculating dynamic capillary force incorporating contact angle hysteresis was developed. The results show that an increase in bubble detachment velocity enhances the contact angle hysteresis effect, which promotes the formation of a reverse capillary neck at the bottom of the bubble, leading to an increase in the residual bubble volume after detachment. This trend becomes more pronounced with increasing substrate hydrophobicity. By introducing and modifying the classical Hoffman model, a functional relationship between the dynamic contact angle and the capillary number was fitted and validated. Furthermore, a dynamic capillary force formula accounting for contact angle hysteresis was derived. The model predictions exhibit strong agreement with experimental results, not only validating its effectiveness in describing interfacial mechanical behavior during dynamic bubble detachment but also extending traditional capillary force models to dynamic detachment conditions.
[172] Wenxu Yu,Xiangyu Guan,Chaoqun Xu ,等.MRT-LBM-EnKF simulation of GIS dynamic thermal rating evaluation considering different contact states[J].Electric Power Systems Research,2026,258 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The dynamic thermal rating (DTR) of a field gas insulated switchgear (GIS) is affected by changes in load current, ambient temperature and internal contact state. In order to realize the rapid DTR evaluation of on-site GIS, this paper proposes a simulation model based on the combination of multiple-relaxation-time lattice Boltzmann method (MRT-LBM) and ensemble Kalman filter (EnKF) data assimilation (DA). A D2Q9 lattice model solves mesoscopic fluid-thermal LBEs for single-phase GIS, converting results to macroscopic parameters. Physical experiments under varying contact states provide observation data, which is assimilated via EnKF to calibrate the MRT-LBM-EnKF model, enabling accurate GIS conductor temperature prediction. The validated model is then applied for DTR evaluation across different contact conditions. The results show that Brent's method is used to solve the maximum current carrying capacity of normal contact state and when butt depth is insufficient, centering angle deviation and finger wear are 649.53 A, 570.90 A, 592.45 A and 531.48 A, respectively. At the same time, the maximum error of this method under the condition of time-varying load current is reduced from 23.86 % before DA to 4.69 % after DA, which provides a reference for thermal health management and DTR of field GIS.
[173] Zhaokuan Xu,Haitao Li,Wen Ren ,等.Investigation of non-linear dynamic characteristics of a point-contact spiroid worm drive generated by two-generating-surface method[J].Journal of Sound and Vibration,2025,597, Part A ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Because of instantaneous multi-tooth contact and line-contact, an Archimedean spiroid worm drive is sensitive to manufacturing and assembly errors. To solve the sensitivity of the spiroid worm drive (SWD), this paper proposes a kind of two-generating-surface method (TGSM) that transforms the contact type of the SWD from line-contact to point-contact. A generating surface is the helical surface of Archimedean spiroid worm, which generates the surface of a spiroid worm wheel. The other one is the arc-curve of a turning tool which degenerates from a spatial arc-surface and the arc-curve forms the surface of the worm that is called arc-worm. The arc-worm and the worm wheel compose a kind of point-contact spiroid worm drive (PCSWD). Furthermore, in order to investigate the non-linear dynamic characteristics of the PCSWD, a 14-degree-of-freedom multi-body dynamic model of the PCSWD considering bending, torsion, and axial is established. For case study, numerical simulation is performed to illustrate the meshing characteristic through tooth contact analysis. A prototype is manufactured and meshing test is performed to verify the correctness of the method. Subsequently, the dynamic response of the PCSWD is analysed by solving dynamic differential equations, The nonlinear characteristics of dynamic transmission error (DTE) under different torques, meshing damping ratio coefficients, and backlashes are analyzed by bifurcation diagrams. The dynamic response of DTE under different excitation frequencies is discussed using time-domain plot, phase portrait, Poincaré map, and frequency domain diagram under constant torque, meshing damping ratio coefficient, and backlash. Finally, the influences of different meshing models, backlashes, helix angles, and tooth profile angles on the root mean square value of dynamic meshing force (DMF) under light and heavy load conditions are discussed. The DTE results show that the PCSWD has sophisticated nonlinear characteristics under different c
[174] Penghao Zhao,Jianhua Liu,Hao Gong ,等.Dynamic modeling of the rotor system with bolted joints considering microscopic contact and nonuniform preloads[J].Applied Mathematical Modelling,2026,155 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The intense vibration of rotor system assembled with bolted joints in high rotational speed brings a potential harm to aero-engine. However, the microscopic contact between disks, coupled with nonuniform preloads, introduces complex nonlinear properties to the rotor system, complicating vibration analysis. This study develops a novel dynamic model of rotor system with bolted joints, considering microscopic contact and nonuniform preloads. Specifically, sub-regions are divided based on pressure distribution under nonuniform preloads, and a multi-scale contact model is deduced based on the fractal theory and semi-analytical method. Subsequently, the lateral and bending stiffness models of bolted-joint disk are refined to incorporate nonuniform preload effects. After solving the motion equations, time/frequency-domain analyses are conducted to reveal the influence of nonuniform preloads and surface roughness on the vibration responses. Through numerical simulation, a comparative analysis is conducted with the traditional dynamic model without microscopic contact and nonuniform preloads. Finally, a bolted-joint rotor test rig is designed to verify the simulation results, and the vibration characteristics under rub-impact faults are analyzed numerically and experimentally.
[175] Isamu Hashiguchi,Jike Han,Shunsuke Kobayashi ,等.A unified topology optimization framework for dynamic contact and friction via hybrid MPM[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2026,457 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study introduces a unified topology optimization (TO) framework capable of handling dynamic mechanical contact with interfacial friction between deformable bodies. The approach leverages a hybrid material point method (MPM), whose mathematical structure closely parallels that of classical finite element analysis, enabling a natural and consistent extension of well-established TO formulations. Through the MPM mapping operation, the framework accurately captures contact dynamics and provides a robust stick–slip formulation of Coulomb friction. Sensitivities are computed using the adjoint method with automatic differentiation, and optimal configurations are iteratively updated via the method of moving asymptotes. The compliance minimization of a three-point bending setting and the energy minimization of a contacting body demonstrate that the proposed framework remains robust for complex dynamics with large, time-evolving changes in contact interfaces and with frictional responses that directly influence overall deformation behavior. The robustness of the present framework is further demonstrated through its successful extension to fully three-dimensional settings. These results convincingly demonstrate that the hybrid MPM-based TO substantially advances structural optimization by directly incorporating dynamic contact with friction, thereby providing a unified framework for designing energy-dissipating compliant mechanical systems and devices.
[176] Congcong Fang,Yuanyu Liang,Wei Zhou ,等.Dynamic and contact characteristics of axle-box bearing for a high-speed train under wheel polygonization[J].Mechanism and Machine Theory,2026,224 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Wheel polygonization is a prevalent defect in high-speed trains that amplifies dynamic excitation within axle-box bearings. However, the internal dynamic and contact behaviors of axle-box bearings under polygonized wheels remain insufficiently understood. In this study, a coupled numerical model of the wheel-rail system and axle-box bearing was developed, which simultaneously resolves wheel–rail contact behavior and internal bearing contact dynamics. Specifically, the wheel-rail interface only evaluates normal contact force via Kik-Piotrowski method, while both normal and tangential forces are considered within bearing roller-raceway interactions using Johnson-Hertz and LuGre model, respectively. Results reveal that polygonization-induced wheel–rail impact forces are attenuated by approximately 80% before reaching the bearing rollers. Vehicle speed exerts a stronger influence on system vibration than axle load, while increased load suppresses roller motion. Higher polygon orders transfer vibration energy from the fundamental frequency to higher harmonics. Greater wear depth causes fluctuations in contact and friction forces, leading to over 60% increase in bearing wear. These findings establish a quantitative link between polygonization parameters and bearing dynamics, offering essential insights for design and maintenance of high-speed railway bearings.
[177] Junhao Zhu,Zhongyi Wang,Zheng Dai ,等.Implementation of dynamic contact angles on complex surfaces in lattice Boltzmann method[J].International Communications in Heat and Mass Transfer,2025,166 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The level of surface energy directly affects its wettability, and the contact angle exhibited at the interface often shows hysteresis and dynamic characteristics. The pseudo-potential Lattice Boltzmann method has been widely applied in multiphase flow computations, but there is currently a lack of dynamic contact angle models based on this method. This paper analyzes and models the wettability between multiphase interfaces, achieving dynamic changes in wettability from a more fundamental perspective of forces, reflecting the hydrodynamic nature of multiphase fluids. By introducing a wall force model and combining it with the Lattice Boltzmann method's ability to spontaneously form phase interfaces, we extract the velocity of the three-phase line using the density time gradient. This approach can be more conveniently applied to complex surfaces and avoids the inaccuracies in near-wall flow fields (spurious velocity) caused by the pseudo-wall force model. Using the air-droplet-solid wall three-phase system as an example, we constructed a dynamic contact angle model suitable for both isotropic and anisotropic surfaces. Stick-slip phenomenon effectively reproduces the contact angle hysteresis and dynamic effects. Additionally, it replicates the air pocket changes observed during the droplet impact process on microstructured surfaces in the experiments.
[178] Cheng Peng,Jiang Wei,Kaikai Liu ,等.Dynamic characteristics of angular contact ball bearings with mild defect on outer raceway[J].Engineering Failure Analysis,2025,178 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A dynamic model of angular contact ball bearings considering mild defect on outer raceway was developed. The mild defect model is comprised of interactions between ball and defect edges and bottom. The blunt wedge contact theory is employed to model the interaction between balls and defect edges. The surface roughness and curvature radius of the defect bottom are both considered based on the Hertzian contact model and mixed lubrication theory for point contact to describe the interaction between balls and the defect bottom. The dynamic model of defective ball bearings is developed in the inertial coordinate system and solved by the fourth-order Runge-Kutta method to perform dynamic analysis of the bearing components. The characteristics of vibration responses and dynamic behaviors of bearing components are analyzed. Experiments are conducted on a test rig in which various arc length faults are introduced onto raceway surfaces. Vibration signals of outer ring are collected to validate the dynamic model of the defective angular contact ball bearing. The modulation phenomenon and mechanism of ball passing frequencies are discussed specifically. The analysis results can provide valuable insights into bearing design and fault diagnosis.
[179] Kun Wang,Qiang Tian,Junwei Shi .Dynamic simulation of woven spring tires via geometrically exact Kirchhoff beams and ADMM-based nonsmooth contact dynamics[J].Mechanism and Machine Theory,2026,225 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The woven spring tire represents a promising non-pneumatic wheel concept for planetary exploration rovers, offering high compliance and damage tolerance. However, accurately simulating their intricate geometry and the massive number of internal frictional contacts remains a significant computational challenge, often limiting the vehicle dynamics community to simplified or phenomenological models. This study introduces a high-fidelity, beam-based multibody model developed specifically for the dynamic analysis of complex woven spring tires. The constituent springs are modeled using geometrically exact Kirchhoff beam elements to accurately capture large spatial deformations. The frictional contact constraints are formulated as cone complementarity problems to rigorously handle stick-slip transitions. To solve the resulting nonsmooth dynamic system, the generalized-<em>α</em> time integration scheme is integrated with the alternating direction method of multipliers. The proposed framework can successfully resolve the highly dynamic interactions of over a hundred interconnected springs and thousands of simultaneous stick-slip contact points at a wire-level resolution. The framework is validated through a series of numerical experiments, including radial stiffness characterization, drawbar pull analysis, and off-road locomotion on irregular rocky terrain. The results demonstrate acceptable agreement with existing experimental data and verify the framework’s capability to capture the complex mechanical behavior and tractive performance of woven spring tires.
[180] Gheriani, Safa,Ahmed, Abdelaziz azeb,Yazid, Fares ,等.A DYNAMIC CONTACT PROBLEM WITH UNILATERAL CONSTRAINT AND ADHESION IN VISCOPLASTICITY[J].Discrete and Continuous Dynamical Systems - S,2026,23 :16-39,AMER INST MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES-AIMS
摘要：This paper discusses a contact dynamics problem with Signorini condition, unilateral constraint, and adhesion for viscoplastic materials. The weak solution existence and uniqueness have been established by employing the time discretization, a quasi-static inequality, and the Banach fixed point theorem to present a variational formulation of the problem.
[181] Pedro P. Fonseca,Valdemar R. Duarte,Tiago Silva ,等.In-situ assessment of machinability and chip formation through the dynamic contact electrical resistance measurement method (DyCERM)[J].Measurement,2026,258, Part A ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This work introduces a novel methodology for high-precision online monitoring of the tool-workpiece interaction in milling operations. The proposed Dynamic Contact Electrical Resistance Measurement (DyCERM) method for machining monitoring, combines user-friendly software with cost-effective hardware to measure the voltage drop across the dynamic tool-workpiece contact interface. Theoretically, DyCERM can be used to monitor milling operations that are applied to conductive materials. The system features high-acquisition rates (2 MHz), enabling the precise monitoring of fundamental features, including tool wear, chatter, surface waviness, workpiece material, cutting speed, and depth of cut. Notably, this study introduces an innovative capability to analyse the chip formation process, allowing accurate measurement of the distance between shear bands within the generated chip, an unprecedented feature in machining process monitoring technologies. The results revealed strong correlation between chip formation patterns, theoretical predictions and signal data, achieving a maximum error of 15 % in shear band spacing analysis. The system reliably detects tool wear and chatter, indicated by increased tool contact time and confirmed by higher surface roughness under unstable conditions. When applied to additively manufactured parts, DyCERM identifies unmachined areas due to surface waviness, signalling the need for additional milling. Sensitivity to cutting speed variations was demonstrated, especially at high spindle speeds up to 20,000 rev/min, where increased speeds reduced tooth contact time deviations in ductile materials, aligning with machinability indicators. Overall, DyCERM offers a versatile, non-invasive, and cost-effective solution that advances traditional monitoring techniques by delivering accessible, high-precision online diagnostics for demanding industrial machining applications.
[182] Liu, Qian,Zheng, Fusen,Hu, Dongliang ,等.Analysis of the tire-pavement contact characteristics in static and dynamic conditions based on Abaqus[J].International Journal of Pavement Engineering,2025,26 (1),TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：Tire-pavement interaction is a contact problem that involves both static load and dynamic rolling, with complex mechanical variations influencing vehicle maneuverability. This paper develops and validates a tire-pavement finite element contact model to analyse the effects of tire and pavement factors-such as load, pressure, speed, friction coefficient, and pavement stiffness-on contact characteristics (i.e. contact area, contact pressure, and stress distribution) under both static and dynamic conditions using Abaqus. The results showed that the load is the most significant factor affecting the tire-pavement contact area under static load. The contact area decreases by approximately 8%-15%, the peak contact pressure increases by about 2.9%-13.4%, and the tire transitions from static to dynamic. In free rolling, increasing speed significantly decreases the tire-pavement contact strength. The factors influencing contact pressure in descending order were tire pressure (56.2%), rolling speed (28.4%), tire load (22.9%), friction coefficient (21.4%), and pavement stiffness (3%). The findings of this study provide insights into the tire-pavement friction behaviour, which in turn offers a foundation for tire design optimization and increased vehicle safety.
[183] Maokuan Bao,Liqin Wang,Yufeng Guo ,等.Cage dynamic behaviors of angular contact ball bearings with double half inner rings under misalignment and skewness angle conditions[J].Tribology International,2026,215, Part A ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A dynamic model is established for angular contact ball bearings with double half inner rings incorporating misalignment and skewness conditions. Cage dynamics, including collisions, motion, and stability, are analyzed. Results show that increasing misalignment or skewness angles suddenly increases the normal force between the cage and the outer ring and intensifies the impact between pockets and balls. Higher axial load on the inner ring reduces the cage whirl ratio. However, significant differences in the density of the normal force between the left and right sides of the cage-outer ring occur, potentially causing the cage to experience eccentric wear. Silicon nitride balls reduce the impact between pockets and balls under misalignment and skewness conditions and decrease the normal force between the outer ring and one side of the cage.
[184] Ouaanabi, Abdelhafid,Alaoui, Mohammed,Bouallala, Mustapha ,等.Variational and Numerical Analysis of a Dynamic Tresca Frictional Contact Problem for Thermo-Electro-Viscoelastic Materials[J].ZAMM - Journal of Applied Mathematics and Mechanics / Zeitschrift für Angewandte Mathematik und Mechanik,2026,106 (4),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：This paper addresses the dynamic contact problem between a thermo-electro-viscoelastic body and a rigid foundation. The contact is bilateral, with friction modeled by Tresca's friction law. The weak formulation of the model is established as a coupled system consisting of a second-order variational evolution inequality, a parabolic variational equation, and an elliptic variational equation. We prove the existence and uniqueness of a weak solution to this problem by applying the Banach fixed-point theorem. Finally, we analyze a fully discrete scheme based on the Euler method and the finite element method, and we derive error estimates for the approximate solutions.
[185] Nikolaos Diamantakis,Omid Shahrokhi,John Andresen .Microfluidic dynamic contact angles of hydrogen mixtures – Brine at conditions relevant to shallow UHS[J].International Journal of Hydrogen Energy,2026,232 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Hydrogen storage in depleted gas reservoirs is a promising large-scale option for intermittent green energy, yet the influence of resident natural gas on storage performance remains poorly understood. We report dynamic contact angles for hydrogen, methane, and 50 mol % mixtures in a hydrophilic glass chip at 58.6 bar and 20–50 °C. During drainage, hydrogen exhibits strongly water-wet angles (12-25°), becoming more intermediate-wet with increasing methane content (22-48°). In-situ mixing resulted in 1/4 reduction in dynamic angles alongside up to 12 % reduced initial gas saturation. Increasing temperature to 50 °C augments dynamic angles. Similarly, higher methane content increases contact angles during imbibition with lower gas trapping, while elevated temperature yields mixture angles of ∼42–44° with 70 % less trapping. Our results indicate that increasing methane content leads to more weakly water-wet angles exhibiting a beneficial effect on storage from a wettability standpoint.
[186] Zhang, Junhan,Han, Ying,Zhang, Lipeng .Design of 3-D Interpenetrating Contact Bounce Suppression Parameters During Contactor Closing Process Based on Improved Particle Swarm Algorithm[J].IEEE Transactions on Components, Packaging and Manufacturing Technology,2025,15 (5):974-981,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：To better suppress contact bounce during the closing of contactor, this article proposes a strategy that combines altering the contact structure to increase the absorption of collision energy loss with improving the particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm to adjust the attraction and repulsion forces of the contactor. A contact collision bounce model of the closing contactor is established to simulate the motion characteristics of the contact closing process. Based on the analysis of contact collision energy loss, a stress-strain behavior analysis is conducted on 3-D interpenetrating Cu-W contacts with rhombic dodecahedron (RD) and cube (CB) skeletons. In the parameter design objective function, contact bounce time and iron core closing time are used as parameters. To address the potential local optimum issue of the PSO algorithm, this article automatically adjusts the inertia weight, adds braking operators to control the search speed, and introduces instantaneous impulse to avoid the local optimum issue of the PSO. The results show that under the improved PSO algorithm's parameter design, the bounce times of commercial contacts, CB contacts, and RD contacts have been reduced by 14.13%, 28.92%, and 36.96%, respectively, demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed method. The results presented provide guidance for the application design of new 3-D interpenetrating Cu-W contacts in contactors.
[187] 高建设,郑子怡,宛磊 ,等.足地接触对被动行走机器人步态动力学行为的影响[J].郑州大学学报（工学版）,2025,46 (3):1-10
摘要：为解决被动行走机器人步态研究中难以分析滑移、弹起等复杂步态的动力学行为的问题,搭建了一种考虑足地接触的圆弧足被动行走机器人模型,分析其在路面材料变化的复杂行走路况下表现出的多种行走模式,并揭示了多参数协同演化下的步态失稳机制。首先,引入赫兹接触模型与库仑摩擦模型描述足地间的法向接触力与切向摩擦力,使用第二类拉格朗日方程进行动力学建模;其次,通过改变接触参数模拟不同弹性与摩擦特性的行走路面,采用数值仿真对行走中的滑移、弹起、跌倒等现象进行研究,获得使机器人行走性能较好的足地接触条件;最后,使用分岔图、时间响应图等工具对机器人各结构参数协同演化时的行走步态进行分析。研究结果表明:摩擦系数大于0.24且阻尼系数大于4.37×10^(6) kg/(m^(1.5)·s)的足地接触环境是机器人稳定行走的必要条件,摩擦系数和阻尼系数的减小将分别使步态出现滑移和弹起,且摩擦系数对步态的影响占主导地位,两接触参数持续减小将使机器人摔倒;在结构参数中,髋关节质量及转动惯量的减小、足半径增大都更有利于机器人适应大范围的行走斜面角度;同时观察到,无论结构参数如何演化,机器人都将随着斜面角度的增大通过滑移而引发步态失稳。
[188] Xingshuai Zhi,Ning Zhou,Haifei Wei ,等.A coupled approach and analysis to pantograph-rigid catenary system considering the contact pair wear and system dynamic interaction[J].Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing,2025,239 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The carbon contact strips of the pantograph collect current from the overhead contact wire to power the train, inevitably causing wear and changes in the wear profile on the contact surfaces, which leads to uneven distribution of the normal load and results in varying degrees of wear rate. This study introduces the influence of contact pair wear on the dynamic interaction of pantograph-catenary system (PCS). A PCS coupling model, considering the entire wear life cycle, was established based on the multibody dynamic theory and energy dissipation theory. The evolution of the PCS dynamic interaction and wear performance during this period is explored. Furthermore, this paper proposes the concept of lateral distribution of contact force to simplify wear profile calculations and enhance the accuracy of wear predictions, thus providing an indicator for determining dynamic and wear performance. The results show that the model demonstrates a strong agreement with the field-measured data in both the time domain and frequency domain. Compared to traditional models, its accuracy has been significantly improved and is applicable to different PCS structures. Additionally, due to the change in the contact pair wear profile, the PCS dynamic performance, wear performance, and electrical contact performance all deteriorate to varying degrees with increasing operating mileage. This deterioration manifests in three stages for dynamic performance: stable, slow degradation, and rapid degradation. However, during operation, there is a competitive situation where the reduction in mass may lead to performance optimization, while the worsening of the profile curve causes performance degradation. On the other hand, the wear performance shows three stages: run-in, stable, and deterioration, which align with field test results. Based on this model, the entire wear life cycle performance of the contact pair can be explored and understood, thereby enabling the development of corresponding perfor
[189] Xu, Xiangyang,Ren, Bo,Huang, Kaisheng ,等.Calculation Method for Contact Fatigue Life of Herringbone Planetary Gears Based on Iterative Coupling of Dynamic Meshing Force and Oil Film Pressure[J].机械工程学报,2025,61 (1):199-208,Chinese Mechanical Engineering Society
摘要：To address the issue of missing dynamic load in the calculation method of contact fatigue life of herringbone planetary gears under mixed elasto-hydrodynamic lubrication, a new method for calculating contact fatigue life based on the iterative coupling of gear dynamic meshing force and oil film pressure is proposed. Firstly, a dynamic model of herringbone planetary gears with coupled tooth surface friction and a model of mixed elasto-hydrodynamic lubrication are established, and the tooth surface pressure and shear force are solved by the iterative coupling method. Secondly, the elastic half-space theory is used to simulate the sub-surface stress field of the gear, and the contact fatigue life is calculated based on the multi-axial fatigue criterion. Finally, the dynamic meshing characteristics, lubrication characteristics, and sub-surface stress distribution under the coupling action of dynamics and mixed elasto-hydrodynamic lubrication are studied, and the effects of dynamic meshing force and tooth surface roughness on contact fatigue life are analyzed. The research results show that the stress calculation method based on the iterative coupling of dynamic meshing force and oil film pressure can effectively simulate the real stress state of the gear sub-surface and accurately predict the contact fatigue life of herringbone planetary gears under mixed elasto-hydrodynamic lubrication. The tooth surface roughness and dynamic meshing force have a significant impact on the contact fatigue life. The increase in tooth surface roughness will cause the maximum sub-surface stress to move towards the tooth surface, increasing the risk of micro-pitting failure. When the dynamic meshing force increases, the contact fatigue life at the resonance frequency is significantly reduced. © 2025 Chinese Mechanical Engineering Society. All rights reserved.
[190] Jian Yang,Dingyu Ban,Jun Shi ,等.Optimization of the thickness of polyurea coatings on RC slabs under contact explosion through machine learning and Bayesian algorithm[J].Journal of Building Engineering,2026,125 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Under contact explosion, spraying polyurea to the rear surface of reinforced concrete (RC) slabs can significantly enhance their blast resistance. Determining the appropriate polyurea coating thickness in different explosion scenarios is a critical issue. In this study, three RC slabs sprayed with different polyurea thickness were fabricated for the contact explosion test. Test results indicate that polyurea coatings can effectively restrain concrete debris. To evaluate the blast resistance of polyurea coatings, an indicator is proposed. Subsequently, 500 data points are generated using the numerical model validated by the test results. These data are used to train 6 ML models, which are used to predict the blast resistance indicator of polyurea coatings based on 5 input features. According to MC simulation results, Support vector machines (SVM) are identified as the optimal prediction model, and its predictions are explained by the SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) method. Slab thickness, polyurea coating thickness, and TNT mass are identified as the three most influential features. Then, the polyurea coating thickness in different scenarios is optimized through Bayesian optimization algorithm (BOA). Finally, according to the optimization results, an empirical formula for the optimal polyurea coating thickness under contact explosion is established. Through research on the applicability of the empirical formula, it is proven to guide the blast resistant design of polyurea reinforced RC slabs.
[191] Li, Huailin,Dong, Haonan,Xi, Yunpeng ,等.Experimental Investigation of Dynamic Contact Stiffness and Damping in Mixed Lubrication for Machine Tool Sliding Guide Interfaces[J].Shock and Vibration,2025,2025 (1),WILEY
摘要：This paper presents an experimental study on the dynamic contact stiffness and damping characteristics of hybrid lubricated mechanical motion joint surfaces formed by machine tool sliding guides. A stiffness and damping parameter testing system was established, utilizing an m + p dynamic signal acquisition and analysis system as its centerpiece. In addition, an experimental platform for the static/dynamic basic characteristics of mechanical hybrid lubricated motion joint surfaces was designed and developed. Utilizing the experimental platform, the investigation has delineated the substantial influence exerted by critical parameters, including the preload between mating surfaces, lubricating oil viscosity, amplitude of the excitation force, and the operational velocity of the mating surfaces, on the fundamental characteristic parameters of the interface across diverse operational scenarios. The findings of the research substantiate that meticulous regulation of these parameters is instrumental in augmenting the static and dynamic contact stiffness, as well as the damping properties of the mating surfaces. Consequently, these empirical studies pertaining to the contact characteristic parameters of mating surfaces furnish essential data support for the comprehensive analysis and optimization of both the static and dynamic performance metrics of precision feed systems within machine tool applications.
[192] Yin Su,Jingqi Zhang,Wei Zhang .Theoretical and experimental approaches for flexible cage dynamic characteristics of four-point contact ball bearing considering multi-point contact behaviors[J].Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing,2025,223 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Multi-point contact often occurs between the balls and raceways of the four-point contact ball bearing (FPCBB) due to operating conditions and manufacturing errors, which can lead to unstable motion and wear of the cage. A dynamic analysis method for FPCBB with a flexible cage under multi-point contact is presented in this paper. Initially, the boundary conditions for different contact points (two-point, three-point, and four-point contact) are clarified through the research of the dynamic interaction and collision mechanisms between the balls and the raceways. Subsequently, based on the structure flexibility, and the collision effect among the balls, cage, and guiding ring, a dynamic model for FPCBB is constructed, and the heightened accuracy and superiority of the model are substantiated through comparative analyses with the conventional rigid cage model. Furthermore, the influence of operating conditions and manufacturing errors on the rotational stability and the wear degree of the cage are explored, and the accuracy and reliability of the model are experimentally verified. The results show that the degree of cage wear is strongly influenced by the contact state, and the maximum wear degree varies at different positions. Reasonable speeds, loads, and manufacturing error range can effectively improve the contact conditions, thereby augmenting cage motion stability and mitigating wear. This research contributes novel insights into the failure analysis and structural optimization of the FPCBB. © 2024
[193] Liu, Mingqing .A contact detection algorithm for polyhedrons based on improved common-plane concept[J].Scientific Reports,2025,15 (1):1-18,NATURE PORTFOLIO
摘要：To address the inaccuracies in contact point calculation and low computational efficiency of traditional common-plane methods in complex contact scenarios, this study proposes an improved contact detection algorithm based on the common-plane concept. By defining a distance function between block elements and the common plane, optimizing the contact point update strategy, and introducing a dual-condition-controlled iterative termination mechanism, the algorithm significantly enhances computational precision for edge-edge, edge-face, and other contact types. Validation using CAD models demonstrates that the coordinate error of contact points is less than 5%, the normal angle deviation is below 0.5 degrees, and the contact depth error is controlled within 1%. Discrete Element Method (DEM) simulations of polyhedron random packing processes reveal that the improved algorithm increases computational efficiency by over 10% compared to the traditional common-plane method, while reducing the maximum contact depth error by 47.4%. Experimental and simulated particle packing morphologies and trajectories show high consistency, confirming the algorithm's reliability and engineering applicability.
[194] Pashchenko, Eu. O.,Lazhevska, O. V.,Savchenko, D. O. ,等.Structural Transformations in Polymers within Tool Composites in the Dynamic Contact Zone[J].Journal of Superhard Materials,2026,48 (2):128-134,PLEIADES PUBLISHING LTD
摘要：The article presents a theoretical analysis of the possibility of the formation and behavior of short-lived transformation structures in polymeric materials under conditions of high input energy densities, typical of the dynamic contact zone of the tool composite with the processed material. The role of spin relaxation processes in the formation of characteristic response times of polymeric materials to intensive energy input is shown. The features of the dynamic behavior of polymeric structures under the mentioned conditions are considered. The possibility of determining the characteristic time that determines the rate of energy exchange between the electronic and vibrational subsystems of the polymer bond using the NMR method is shown.
[195] Wu, Keliu,Gao, Yanling,Chen, Zhangxin .Ultra-strong velocity dependence of dynamic contact angle for water intrusion at the nanoscale[J].AIChE Journal,2026,WILEY
摘要：Understanding and manipulating water intrusion at the nanoscale have increasingly attracted much interest in nature and technology. A velocity-dependent dynamic contact angle (DCA), as a boundary condition, serves a vital function in an advancing water front. However, an understanding of DCA mechanisms remains limited. Here, we develop a universal theory for DCA jointly produced by the friction dissipation near the contact line region and the viscous energy losses at the bulk meniscus, molecular movements overcoming these two modes of dissipation are characterized as slip velocity and bulk velocity in hydrodynamics, respectively. We find that contact angle significantly changes with velocity during water intrusion into nano-capillaries with different wettability, spanning from superhydrophilic to superhydrophobic. Our results demonstrate that the velocity dependence of DCA can be readily strengthened or suppressed by tuning confinement or wettability of nano-capillaries, which can be further used to manipulate nanoscale water flow at a more precise level.
[196] Hubao A,Zhibing Yang,Yongqiang Chen ,等.Nanoscale spontaneous imbibition: the roles of dynamic contact angle, contact line advancement and altered fluid properties[J].International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer,2026,256, Part 3 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Spontaneous imbibition at the nanoscale plays a pivotal role in both natural phenomena and industrial applications. Despite numerous theoretical models have been proposed, their validity remains to be further validated, especially in the cases with strong solid–liquid interactions. To address this knowledge gap, we employ molecular dynamics simulations with atomic resolution to characterize spontaneous water imbibition in calcite nanochannels, motivated by their prevalence and intense solid–liquid interactions. We find that the three-phase contact line on the calcite surface moves forward in a rolling mode. We demonstrate that this rolling mode is primarily attributed to the layered structures and the restricted mobility of water molecules on the calcite surface due to the strong water–rock interactions. We show that the classical theoretical models fail to fully capture nanoscale imbibition dynamics. We thus propose an improved Lucas-Washburn model to incorporate the dynamic contact angle, the advancement mode of the three-phase contact line, and changes in water properties. The simulation results show that the proposed model can predict the imbibition process in the calcite nanochannels with sufficient accuracy. The findings of this work not only enrich the understanding of nanoscale spontaneous imbibition dynamics, but also offer theoretical guidance for the related engineering applications.
[197] Xuefeng Yang,Cheng Chang,Majia Zheng ,等.Characterizing Dynamic Contact Angle during Gas–Liquid Imbibition in Microchannels by Lattice Boltzmann Method Modeling[J].ACS Omega,2025,10 (3):3116-3127,American Chemical Society
摘要：Spontaneous imbibition in microchannels is a critical phenomenon in various industrial applications, such as enhanced oil recovery and microfluidic systems. One of the key factors influencing the imbibition process is the dynamic wetting effect, which governs the interaction between the liquid and solid surfaces. This paper improves the original pseudopotential model for interfluid forces by coupling it with the Peng–Robinson equation of state. The model’s accuracy is verified through thermodynamic consistency checks, simulations of gas–liquid interfacial tensions, and testing of static equilibrium contact angles. Following model validation, we use it to simulate spontaneous gas–liquid imbibition in microchannels and investigate dynamic contact angle evolution during the process. The results demonstrate that (1) as the microchannel width increases, inertia forces become more significant during the initial imbibition stages, leading to a greater difference between the dynamic and static contact angles. (2) A decrease in fluid–solid interaction strength results in a larger gap between dynamic and static contact angles. (3) Higher interfacial tension strengthens the capillary forces, accelerating the imbibition rate and enlarging the difference between the dynamic and static contact angles. Furthermore, the dynamic contact angle data obtained from our simulations can be used to correct the traditional Lucas–Washburn equation. The corrected equation predicts imbibition distances that closely match the simulation results.
[198] Ouaanabi, Abdelhafid,Alaoui, Mohammed,Essoufi, El Hassan ,等.Mathematical Analysis of a Dynamic Signorini's Contact Problem Governed by a System of Variational-Hemivariational Inequalities in Thermo-Viscoelasticity[J].Iranian Journal of Science,2026,50 (1):171-182,SPRINGER INT PUBL AG
摘要：In our study, we examine a mathematical model that characterizes the dynamic Coulomb's frictional contact between a thermo-viscoelastic body and a thermally conductive rigid foundation. This model incorporates a nonlinear constitutive viscoelastic law with long-term memory and thermal effects. The contact condition on the contact surface is modeled using Signorini's boundary condition, expressed through Clarke subdifferential. By formulating the problem's weak form as a system combining variational-hemivariational inequalities, we establish the existence and uniqueness of a weak solution to the model, leveraging recent advances in the theory of variational-hemivariational inequalities.
[199] Zheng, Yong-Tong,Fan, Wei-Long,Gao, Xiao-Wei ,等.Element differential method for the multi-physics coupled contact analysis of high-temperature dynamic seal structure[J].Acta Mechanica Sinica,2026,42 (5),SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：High-temperature dynamic seals are the structures used to seal movable clearances in high-temperature environments. The essential components of these seals are the fiber-braided seal strips. When it is working, the strip is subjected to a transverse preload, decreasing its porosity and restricting gas flow to achieve sealing. To implement seal design, efficient numerical analysis is essential, which is supposed to involve the deformation, heat transfer, seepage, and the interactions among these physical processes. In this paper, a nonlinear thermal-mechanics-seepage coupled contact model is used to describe the seal strips with circular sections. An element differential scheme is proposed to solve the coupled governing equations, and an iterative procedure based on the element differential method (EDM) tracks the contact interfaces, which further determines the range of boundary conditions of other physical fields. The proposed method simplifies the computation by avoiding integral evaluations and reducing matrix density. Two examples are implemented to verify the correctness of the proposed scheme and to predict the variations in physical variables of the seal structures. Furthermore, a comparison between the EDM and finite element method results indicates that the EDM is more efficient because of fewer contact iterations and a sparser coefficient matrix.
[200] Hu, Shaoping,Zhang, Chao,Sun, Longfeng ,等.A Dynamic Analysis of Angular Contact Ball Bearing 7205C Used for a Scraper Conveyor[J].Applied Sciences,2025,15 (22),MDPI
摘要：As core pieces of transport equipment in longwall mining systems, scraper conveyors operate under extremely harsh and dynamic loading conditions. Their operational reliability and service life primarily depend on the performance of critical components within their drive systems, particularly the support bearings. However, complex and often unpredictable load spectra (such as severe impacts, vibrations, and contaminant ingress) pose significant challenges to the dynamic behavior and longevity of these bearings. Traditional static analysis fails to capture their true operating state, as it neglects transient effects, varying contact angles, and internal vibration excitation. This study conducts a comprehensive dynamic analysis of angular contact ball bearing 7205C to elucidate its dynamic response under actual operating conditions of scraper conveyors. Based on Hertzian elastic contact theory and bearing dynamics theory, the comprehensive stiffness of the angular contact ball bearing is derived, and the effects of axial force, rotational speed, and mass eccentricity on bearing performance are analyzed. The findings are expected to provide a theoretical foundation for optimizing bearing selection, predicting service life, and enhancing the overall reliability of mining machinery.