[1] Ruiping Niu,Yi Cai,Chengtao Wu .An explicit dynamic face-based smoothed finite element approach to thermoelastic modeling in thermal ablation therapy[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2026,184 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Computer-assisted thermal ablation therapy techniques depend on precise and effective soft tissue temperature prediction. This paper proposes an accurate explicit dynamics face-based smoothed finite element algorithm (FS-FEM) for thermoelastic analysis of soft tissue, grounded in large deformation thermoselasticity and total Lagrangian formulation. A tightly coupled model is proposed to capture the interactive behavior: (i) bioheat transfer with tissue deformation, (ii) tissue deformation due to thermal expansion. Then the weakened weak form of the presented coupled model is derived, and the explicit dynamic face-based smoothed finite element approach is formulated. Finally, the effectiveness and compatibility of the established methodology are verified using a human liver modelling with publicly available CT scan datasets to illustrate a clinically pertinent scenario of thermal ablation for hepatocellular carcinoma. The results demonstrate that our proposed numerical algorithm efficiently solves the simulation of liver thermal ablation, with temperature and tissue deformation predictions being more accurate than those obtained by the finite element method (FEM).
[2] Runqiu Wang,Guilin Wang,Siwei Lu ,等.An explicit finite material point method for solid dynamics involving large deformations[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2026,188 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The FEM–MPM approach mitigates mesh distortion and improves efficiency by coupling FEM and MPM. However, solving momentum equations at both finite element and background grid nodes causes projection error accumulation during dynamic interface evolution, potentially reducing numerical stability. Moreover, most formulations are developed within the updated Lagrangian framework, where element-to-particle conversion may still trigger cell-crossing errors. To address these issues, this study incorporates the GPIC algorithm, which employs finite element discretization while solving momentum equations on a unified background grid, replacing the FEM component in conventional FEM–MPM. The resulting framework integrates FEM-type spatial discretization with background-grid momentum integration under both updated and total Lagrangian descriptions. The computational procedure includes three components. First, the material is discretized by finite elements embedded in an Eulerian background grid. Gaussian integration evaluates element variables, which are mapped to grid nodes to solve momentum equations and projected back for updates. Second, an adaptive conversion scheme transforms integration points in distorted elements into material points. Third, converted material points interact with the background grid for variable updates. Explicit schemes are adopted. Numerical examples—including bar vibration, vortex deformation, rubber stretching, and block impact—demonstrate the convergence, stability, and accuracy of the proposed method.
[3] Furr, William M.,Srinivasa, Arun R.,Danielson, Kent T. ,等.Higher-Order Hypoelastic-Plastic Beam Elements in Nonlinear Explicit Dynamics[J].International Journal of Structural Stability and Dynamics,2026,WORLD SCIENTIFIC PUBL CO PTE LTD
摘要：In this paper, a mass lumped, rate-type C-0 continuous finite element model of arbitrarily higher-order is developed using well-known hypoelastic-plastic type constitutive relations for a shear deformable (Timoshenko) beam. Higher-order elements provide true curvature, improved performance in bending and buckling, and avoid hourglass modes and numerical locking without ad hoc treatments. Historically, however, first-order elements have been predominant in explicit finite element codes because of difficulties achieving robust and reliable mass-lumping. Although known to exhibit some deficiencies in certain regimes, hypoelastic type constitutive relations possess sufficient theoretical rigor and have been successfully and extensively used in production finite element codes for the nonlinear applications of interest herein. First, the governing equations of motion for a Timoshenko beam element capable of finite deformation are developed. We spatially discretize using a standard weak-form Galerkin finite element approximation and optimal C-0 Lagrange shape functions of arbitrarily higher order and integrate throughout time using a central-difference method and a lumped mass matrix. Then, the thermodynamical consistency of the hypoelastic-plastic rate type formulation is proved starting with a Gibbs potential and its viability for the considered elasto-plasticity applications is discussed. We present several numerical examples of nonlinear finite deformation demonstrating the accuracy and utility of the lumped-mass beam elements developed herein and evaluate the performance of increased order compared to standard linear elements.
[4] Gorfain, Joshua E. .Shock Response of NASA ShockSat from Explicit Dynamics Finite Element Analysis[J].Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets,2026,63 (2):633-645,AMER INST AERONAUTICS ASTRONAUTICS
摘要：Shock is a persistent technical challenge for spacecraft and launch vehicle systems. The modeling and simulation of shock events has been an active area of interest for many years. Shock testing has its own challenges, primarily related to suitable experiment design, acquisition of quality data, and proper physical interpretation. Explicit dynamics finite element analysis (FEA) has been previously shown to successfully predict and interpret the shock response of various systems. Here, this technique was applied to NASA ShockSat as a case study of a spacecraft-like system. Shock tests from the original ShockSat experimental program were directly simulated and compared to measured data. Analysis of both datasets presented useful insights into the shock propagation through such a system, emphasizing the underlying physics of wave propagation. The merits and limits of the simulations are discussed, as is their relation to current, industry-standard practices. Explicit dynamics simulations were found to be in excellent agreement with data measured throughout the ShockSat structure. Notable predictive accuracy was achieved despite employing low-effort modeling, indicating that complex joint behavior does not always occur.
[5] Giuliano Guarino,Yannis Voet,Pablo Antolin ,等.A stabilization technique for immersogeometric analysis of plate and shell problems in explicit dynamics[J].Journal of Sound and Vibration,2026,626 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Finite element plate and shell formulations are ubiquitous in structural analysis for modeling all kinds of slender structures, both for static and dynamic analyses. The latter are particularly challenging as the high order nature of the underlying partial differential equations and the slenderness of the structures all impose a stringent constraint on the critical time step in explicit dynamics. Unfortunately, badly cut elements in immersed finite element discretizations further aggravate the issue. While lumping the mass matrix often increases the critical time step, it might also trigger spurious oscillations in the approximate solution thereby compromising the numerical solution. In this article, we extend our previous work in [1] to allow stable immersogeometric analysis of plate and shell problems with lumped mass matrices. This technique is based on polynomial extensions and restores a level of accuracy comparable to boundary-fitted discretizations.
[6] Junqi Zhang,Christopher G. Provatidis,Sundararajan Natarajan ,等.A unified explicit dynamics framework leveraging the advantages of polyhedral element formulations, precomputation techniques, balanced octree meshes, and constitutive matrix splitting[J].Finite Elements in Analysis and Design,2026,258 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper presents a unified, fully automated <span class="monospace">MATLAB</span>-framework for parallel explicit dynamics in solid mechanics that integrates a range of advanced computational techniques. Key components include different polyhedral element formulations, precomputation strategies for element stiffness and mass matrices, and the construction of balanced octree meshes. Central to the approach is the mapping of element-level stiffness and mass matrices from 144 precomputed master elements, enabling high computational efficiency and automation. A key contribution of this work is a comprehensive comparison of the performance of various polyhedral element formulations capable of constructing tailored transition elements, which inherently resolve the hanging-node problem. The framework incorporates transition elements based on transfinite interpolation, smoothed-cell finite elements, virtual elements, and scaled boundary finite elements. In addition, it supports the integration of other polyhedral element formulations. To further enhance the performance of the proposed framework, it leverages a decomposition of constitutive matrices based on the material parameters. For isotropic materials, a decomposition is employed using the two Lamé constants, reducing both memory usage and inter-core communication. This approach requires only two stiffness matrices and one mass matrix per element pattern. Although well-established for isotropic cases, this decomposition is easily extensible to general anisotropic materials. The efficiency, robustness, and versatility of the proposed framework are demonstrated through four numerical examples, involving complex geometries and heterogeneous material properties. In general, this work establishes a scalable foundation for high-fidelity simulations of dynamic phenomena in computational mechanics and engineering applications.
[7] Tim Bürchner,Lars Radtke,Sascha Eisenträger ,等.Generalized Eigenvalue stabilization for immersed explicit dynamics[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2026,452, Part A ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Explicit time integration for immersed finite element discretizations severely suffers from the influence of poorly cut elements. In this contribution, we propose a generalized eigenvalue stabilization (GEVS) strategy for the element mass matrices of cut elements to cure their adverse impact on the critical time step size of the global system. We use spectral basis functions, specifically <em>C</em><sup>0</sup> continuous Lagrangian interpolation polynomials defined on Gauss-Lobatto-Legendre (GLL) points, which, in combination with its associated GLL quadrature rule, yield high-order convergent diagonal mass matrices for uncut elements. Moreover, considering cut elements, we combine the proposed GEVS approach with the finite cell method to guarantee definiteness of the system matrices. However, the proposed GEVS stabilization can directly be applied to other immersed boundary finite element methods. Numerical experiments demonstrate that the stabilization strategy achieves optimal convergence rates and recovers critical time step sizes of equivalent boundary-conforming discretizations. This also holds in the presence of weakly enforced Dirichlet boundary conditions using either Nitsche’s method or penalty formulations.
[8] 陆新元,张文鹏,王贺 .基于显式动力学仿真分析汽车碰撞安全性[J].机械工程师,2026
摘要：针对在实验室内进行汽车碰撞安全性试验成本高、可重复性差等问题,采用显式动力学仿真法替代传统的汽车碰撞安全试验,基于显式动力学基本理论,利用显式动力学软件进行汽车碰撞仿真分析并获取其安全性参数。基于LS-DYNA软件及C-NCAP正面100%重叠刚性壁障碰撞管理规则,模拟某汽车碰撞工况,并对前舱空间及关键部件进行分析,研究结果表明:保险杠系统侵入455 mm,吸能盒充分变形,防火墙最大侵入量为179.9 mm,A柱未发生折弯;汽车在碰撞过程中驾驶员腿部可能会受到伤害,驾驶舱空间总变形量较小。文中的研究结论可为研究汽车碰撞安全性提供理论参考。
[9] Anh-Khoa Chau,Michael Brun,Pascal Ventura ,等.Explicit dynamics and buckling simulations with 7-p shell elements and enhanced assumed strain[J].Finite Elements in Analysis and Design,2025,247 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Explicit strategies for shell dynamics are presented using 7-parameter shell elements and the Central Difference scheme. The formulation of the 7-parameter shell element is based on the widely used Enhanced Assumed Strain (EAS), allowing the use of a 3D constitutive law in the shell element without the need to condense the transverse normal stress component in the material law. The 7-parameter shell elements were mainly employed in the context of non-linear quasi-static loading and implicit dynamics for reproducing buckling phenomena. Explicit dynamics is the focus of this work, which proposes different strategies to handle the EAS field. In addition, kinematic constraints at the intersections between shell components are prescribed in terms of velocity. The critical time step size for thin-shell structures modeled with 7-parameter shell elements is increased thanks to the Selective Mass Scaling technique (SMS). The relevance of the proposed approaches is based on the ability to conserve momenta and energy and reproduce complex dynamic buckling phenomena. Numerical applications include classical benchmark tests for assessing the relevance of momentum-energy conserving time integration schemes: the free fly of a toss rule and the three intersecting plates. Buckling phenomena are also investigated for a roof cylindrical shell and a closed cylinder under follower external pressure. The proposed non-linear explicit dynamic strategies are attractive due to their enhanced capability to conserve momenta and energy and efficient prediction of dynamic buckling phenomena.
[10] Louis Scheidt,Jean-Philippe Crété,Patrice Longère .Mass-lumping technique for fully explicit time integration of the shifted-basis variant of the 3D extended finite element method[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2026,451 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A diagonalization technique of the mass matrix in the context of the shifted-basis variant of the extended finite element method (SBXFEM) is proposed based on a mass scaling factor imposed on the enriched part of the mass matrix. The objective is to be able to perform 3D fully explicit analysis involving ductile damage and fracture process, within the framework of large deformation and high strain rates, including but not limited to, high-velocity impacts and shocks. Furthermore, the developed methodology is compatible with implementation in a commercial finite element software package, specifically Abaqus in the context of this work. At the element scale the mass-scaling factor helps to minimize the error in kinetic energy to ensure accurate results while, considering complex structures, the ill-conditioning of the diagonalized enriched mass matrix tends to vanish. The accuracy and efficiency of the technique are assessed through both analytical investigations and numerical validations using 1D and 3D benchmark examples.
[11] 刘金童,刘权,张书洋 ,等.基于显式动力学的金属管件在轨缠绕成形仿真分析[J].机械设计,2025,42 (S2):56-60
摘要：在轨制造与组装是突破航天器设计与发射限制的重要途径,其中,螺旋锁合管作为空间大型桁架结构的基本单元具有重要应用前景。基于SolidWorks与ABAQUS建立在轨缠绕成形装备有限元模型,采用显式动力学方法对金属管件成形过程进行仿真,分析了应力应变分布、成形速度及轨迹偏移规律。结果表明:成形过程应力集中于带材锁槽和弯曲区域,但均低于材料强度极限;成形速度随带材行进速度线性增加;仿真成形的金属管件圆度与直线度误差均小于既定设计公差。研究验证了缠绕成形装置和仿真模型的可行性,为螺旋锁合管在轨制造提供了理论参考。
[12] Ada, Hediye Deniz .COMPUTATIONAL INVESTIGATION OF EROSION CORROSION IN ELBOW PIPES UNDER VARYING FLOW CONDITIONS USING EXPLICIT DYNAMICS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS[J].Surface Review and Letters,2025,32 (1),WORLD SCIENTIFIC PUBL CO PTE LTD
摘要：Erosion corrosion is encountered in many areas of industry and is a very complex phenomenon. In this study, it is aimed to investigate the effects of erosion corrosion in elbow pipes with different shear moduli, velocities of fluid, density of pipe using Ansys Workbench Explicit Dynamics module which is computer-aided and based on finite element. Statistical analyses were also performed to obtain the best flow parameters. SolidWorks program was used for three-dimensional studies considering elbow pipe design. The fluid properties and physical conditions were applied to the three-dimensional solid model in the pipe flow analysis. At the end of the dynamic analysis, erosion values (deformation) occurring in the elbow pipes were statistically compared to each other.
[13] Mohammad Mahdi Malakiyeh,Saeed Shojaee,Saleh Hamzehei-Javaran .A novel explicit-implicit time integration method for solving time-dependent finite element equation: The Versa- δ method[J].Computers & Structures,2025,309 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, we present a novel explicit–implicit time integration method for solving dynamic problems. The proposed method is designed to easily switch between explicit and implicit forms by adjusting certain control parameters. The remaining control parameters are optimized to ensure that the method would deliver a flawless performance in both forms. This method uses two sub-steps per time step and can directly be used as a first-order and a second-order method, with high capability to suppress spurious responses. The consistency, stability, numerical damping, order of accuracy, amplitude decay, and period elongation are later analyzed for both explicit and implicit forms. Additionally, the proposed method is compared specifically with other widely-used methods with two sub-steps, including both explicit and implicit approaches. Examples are also provided to demonstrate the method’s practicality.
[14] Xiao, Xiaoge,Li, Jiahua,Lian, Ao ,等.Explicit dynamics analysis of forearm tendon stresses during the forehand smash[J].Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology,2026,14 ,FRONTIERS MEDIA SA
摘要：Introduction Fast, asymmetric strokes in racket sports generate complex multi-joints loads that affect performance and injury;however, the biomechanical mechanisms of milliseconds-scale shuttlecock-racket collisions are not fully elucidated. This paper aims to characterize the contact kinetics of the badminton forehand smash and evaluate the resulting stress and strain distribution within the forearm during the impact *** Seven badminton athletes were recruited, and forehand smash trials were captured with a motion-capture system at 1,000Hz. Using inverse dynamics, we computed the sweep angular velocities, centripetal acceleration and centrifugal forces of racket, hand and forearm relative to the shoulder. Further, we reconstructed a subject-specific upper-limb model comprising the bone, soft tissues, and the racket. Kinetics inputs were applied as loading boundary conditions to an explicit dynamics finite element solver to obtain von Mises equivalent stress and strain for six tendons: flexor digitorum superficialis, flexor carpi ulnaris, pronator teres, extensor digitorum communis, extensor carpi ulnaris, and extensor carpi radialis brevis. Kinetics and finite element results were defined with a normalized contact window (0%-100%).Results The shuttlecock-racket contact window was approximately 3 ms. Racket kinematics peaked one frame at the impact and declined during contact. Shuttlecock speed surged early, with anterior-posterior-dominant impact force peaking in the first 1 ms. Hand sweep angular velocity was approximately constant while forearm sweep angular velocity rose slightly then fell. Furthermore, extensor digitorum communis exhibited the highest stress, followed by the flexor digitorum superficialis and pronator teres, with the extensor carpi radialis brevis lowest. Flexor digitorum superficialis displayed the largest strain. In terms of timing, stresses in pronator teres and flexor digitorum superficialis rose rapidly from 0% to 30% of the co
[15] Epunan Urra, Diego F.,Tuninetti, Victor .Influence of Die Geometry on Electromagnetic Riveting of Ti-6Al-4V: An Explicit Finite Element Analysis[J].Aerospace,2025,12 (12),MDPI
摘要：Electromagnetic riveting (EMR) is a high-speed solid-state joining technique with growing relevance in aerospace manufacturing, particularly for titanium alloys such as Ti-6Al-4V. Although the mechanical behavior of EMR joints has been previously studied, the specific influence of die geometry on rivet deformation and joint integrity remains insufficiently understood. In this work, an explicit finite element analysis was conducted using ANSYS Explicit Dynamics to assess the effect of three die geometries (90 degrees, 70 degrees, and 45 degrees) on the mechanical and thermal response of Ti-6Al-4V rivets and plates. The Johnson-Cook constitutive model was employed to capture high strain-rate deformation behavior. Key process metrics, including radial expansion, Von Mises stress, plastic work, and adiabatic temperature rise, were analyzed for each configuration. The results show that sharper die angles (90 degrees) promote greater rivet expansion but also induce higher stress concentrations in the plates, while shallower dies (45 degrees) produce smoother stress distributions with reduced deformation. All configurations demonstrated significant adiabatic temperature rise (approximately 250 degrees C) in the high-deformation zones. This indicates that thermal softening contributes to the material flow, although the process remains below the phase transformation temperature of Ti-6Al-4V. Overall, the findings highlight that die geometry critically affects stress localization and rivet interlocking, providing guidance for optimizing EMR tooling design to enhance reliability in high-performance aerospace structures.
[16] 周鹏发,申玉生,高登 ,等.基于混合有限元的显式时域完美匹配层研究[J].岩土力学,2025,46 (5):1605-1619,1631,Biodiversity Research Center Academia Sinica
摘要：为解决岩土动力学分析中的外行波吸收问题,提出了一种基于中心差分法的显式混合有限元时域完美匹配层(perfectly matched layer,简称PML)。推导了适用于显式积分的二维及三维有限元半离散方程,并构建了二维应力-位移场混合单元Q4/4和三维应力-位移场混合单元HEX8/8进行空间离散,提出了一种适用于三阶动力方程的扩展中心差分法显式积分格式,并将其应用于求解三维时域完美匹配层方程。基于ABAQUS/Explicit进行了程序实现,开展数值试验分析了该人工边界在不同地层类型、波动类型、波动频率及边界厚度等条件下的吸收性能。结果表明:各计算工况下完美匹配层均能有条件的收敛;当完美匹配层厚度大于10层单元时,各工况截断模型响应与扩大模型响应的归一化均方根偏差均小于2%。所提出的积分格式及数值实现方案具有良好的稳定性和计算精度,不同地层条件下完美匹配层对不同类型及不同频率的外行波均表现出良好的吸收性能。研究成果在岩土动力学分析领域具有广泛的应用前景。
[17] Zhong, Qi,Zhai, Zidi,Wu, Zi'ang ,等.Thread design optimization of a dental implant using explicit dynamics finite element analysis[J].Scientific Reports,2025,15 (1):1-19,NATURE PORTFOLIO
摘要：To optimize the thread design of a commercial dental implant for ideal stress distribution in the peri-implant bone. The models of the BLT (R) Phi 4.1 x 10 implant (Institut Straumann AG) and the alveolar bone were created. Dynamic von Mises stress (sigma(vM)) in the peri-implant cortical bone during and immediately after implantation was calculated using explicit dynamics finite element analysis (EDFEA). The combination of thread pitch, depth, tip width (TW), and coronal/apical surface angle (CSA/ASA), which produced minimal sigma(vM) was determined as the optimal thread design by orthogonal experimental design. The implants with optimal and original thread designs were fabricated and implanted into rabbits' tibias. Implant stability quotient (ISQ), bone-to-implant contact (BIC), and bone volume fraction in 500 mu m (BV/TV-500) and 1000 mu m range (BV/TV-1000) were measured to evaluate the osseointegration performance of the implants. The implant thread design of 0.8-mm pitch, 0.2-mm depth, 0.15-mm TW, 10-degree CSA, and 10-degree ASA produced minimal sigma(vM) for the maxillary posterior region (OPT-max). The thread design of 1.0-mm pitch, 0.3-mm depth, 0.2-mm TW, 0-degree CSA, and 20-degree ASA produced minimal sigma(vM) for the mandibular posterior region (OPT-man). Optimized implants showed significantly improved ISQ value (p < 0.05) 4 weeks after implantation. The BV/TV-500 and BV/TV-1000 around the OPT-max, and the BIC and BV/TV-500 around the OPT-man implant were significantly higher than those around the originally designed implant, respectively (p < 0.05). The thread design significantly affects the stress in the peri-implant bone during and immediately after the implantation. The optimal thread design based on EDFEA promoted the osteogenesis around the implant.
[18] Ba, Shihong,Ban, Yichen,Lyu, Kun ,等.Finite Element Explicit Dynamics Simulation of an Impact Cutting Mechanism Analysis of Populus tomentosa Branches[J].BioResources,2024,19 (2):3614-3636,NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIV DEPT WOOD & PAPER SCI
摘要：The branch impact failure mechanism has gradually received attention from scholars, along with the application of impact cutting methods in plantation forest pruning. In this paper, the impact cutting failure mechanism of Populus tomentosa branches was mainly studied. The impact cutting process of branches was simulated by using Finite Element Method (FEM)-based explicit dynamics. The stress change and deformation characteristics in the branch failure process were studied. A theoretical model of branch impact cutting mechanism with branch diameter, cutting clearance, and branch angle as the main factors was proposed. The model describes the branch cutting damage process and the changing characteristics of cutting force. A branch failure state equation was proposed to describe the branch impact cutting failure patterns. The forest experiment was conducted to validate the branch impact cutting mechanism and the branch failure state equation. This work fills a vacancy of relevant theory and provides a theoretical basis for the future development of forestry and agricultural equipment using impact cutting.
[19] 康正东,王少喆,苏步云 ,等.基于人工神经网络的金属材料本构模型在显式有限元中的实现[J].爆炸与冲击,2026,46 (3):37-50
摘要：以CoCrFeNiMn高熵合金为研究对象,首先开展了不同温度与应变率下的压缩实验,获得了应力-应变数据;随后基于实验结果建立了修正的Johnson-Cook本构模型,并用于有限元仿真生成机器学习训练数据。在此基础上构建人工神经网络(artificial neural network,ANN)模型,对材料流动应力进行学习与预测。为实现神经网络在有限元框架中的高效应用,开发了基于FORTRAN的自动代码生成工具,将训练完成的ANN模型嵌入到Abaqus/Explicit计算平台中。结果表明,该方法预测精度高,相对误差低于1%,且计算效率优于传统本构模型。基于数据驱动的神经网络方法可有效替代传统本构模型在有限元中的应用,为金属材料的数值建模与模拟提供了一条有效路径。
[20] Bürchner, Tim,Radtke, Lars,Kopp, Philipp ,等.On the efficiency of explicit and semi-explicit immersed boundary finite element methods for wave propagation problems[J].Advances in Computational Science and Engineering,2025,3 :125-149,arXiv
摘要：Immersed boundary methods have attracted substantial interest in the last decades due to their potential for computations involving complex geometries. Often these cannot be efficiently discretized using boundary-fitted finite elements. Immersed boundary methods provide a simple and fully automatic discretization based on Cartesian grids and tailored quadrature schemes that account for the geometric model. It can thus be described independently of the grid, e.g., by image data obtained from computed tomography scans. The drawback of such a discretization lies in the potentially small overlap between certain elements in the grid and the geometry. These badly cut elements with small physical support pose a particular challenge for nonlinear and/or dynamic simulations. In this work, we focus on problems in structural dynamics and acoustics and concentrate on solving them with explicit time-marching schemes. In this context, badly cut elements can lead to unfeasibly small critical time step sizes. We investigate the performance of implicit-explicit time marching schemes and two stabilization methods developed in previous works as potential remedies. While these have been studied before with regard to their effectiveness in increasing the critical time step size, their numerical efficiency has only been considered in terms of accuracy per degree of freedom. In this paper, we evaluate the computation time required for a given accuracy, which depends not only on the number of degrees of freedom but also on the selected spatial discretization, the sparsity patterns of the system matrices, and the employed time-marching scheme. © 2025, CC BY.
[21] S. Eisenträger,L. Radtke,W. Garhuom ,等.An eigenvalue stabilization technique for immersed boundary finite element methods in explicit dynamics[J].Computers & Mathematics with Applications,2024,166 :129-168,Elsevier Science
摘要：The application of immersed boundary methods in static analyses is often impeded by poorly cut elements (small cut elements problem), leading to ill-conditioned linear systems of equations and stability problems. While these concerns may not be paramount in explicit dynamics, a substantial reduction in the critical time step size based on the smallest volume fraction $\chi$ of a cut element is observed. This reduction can be so drastic that it renders explicit time integration schemes impractical. To tackle this challenge, we propose the use of a dedicated eigenvalue stabilization (EVS) technique. The EVS-technique serves a dual purpose. Beyond merely improving the condition number of system matrices, it plays a pivotal role in extending the critical time increment, effectively broadening the stability region in explicit dynamics. As a result, our approach enables robust and efficient analyses of high-frequency transient problems using immersed boundary methods. A key advantage of the stabilization method lies in the fact that only element-level operations are required. This is accomplished by computing all eigenvalues of the element matrices and subsequently introducing a stabilization term that mitigates the adverse effects of cutting. Notably, the stabilization of the mass matrix $\mathbf{M}_\mathrm{c}$ of cut elements -- especially for high polynomial orders $p$ of the shape functions -- leads to a significant raise in the critical time step size $\Delta t_\mathrm{cr}$. To demonstrate the efficacy of our technique, we present two specifically selected dynamic benchmark examples related to wave propagation analysis, where an explicit time integration scheme must be employed to leverage the increase in the critical time step size.
[22] Yan Brodskyi,Vitaliy Gyrya,Anatoly Zlotnik .Simulation of gas mixture dynamics in a pipeline network using explicit staggered-grid discretization[J].Applied Mathematical Modelling,2025,137, Part B ,Elsevier Science
摘要：We develop an explicit staggered finite difference discretization scheme for simulating the transport of highly heterogeneous gas mixtures through pipeline networks. This study is motivated by the proposed blending of hydrogen into natural gas pipelines to reduce end use carbon emissions while using existing pipeline systems throughout their planned lifetimes. Our computational method accommodates an arbitrary number of constituent gases with very different physical properties that may be injected into a network with significant spatiotemporal variation. In this setting, the gas flow physics are highly location- and time- dependent, so that local composition and nodal mixing must be accounted for. The resulting conservation laws are formulated in terms of pressure, partial densities and flows, and volumetric and mass fractions of the constituents. We include non-ideal equations of state that employ linear approximations of gas compressibility factors, so that the pressure dynamics propagate locally according to a variable wave speed that depends on mixture composition and density. We derive compatibility relationships for network edge boundary values that are more complex than for a homogeneous gas. The simulation method is evaluated on initial boundary value problems for a single pipe and a small network, is cross-validated with a lumped element simulation, and used to demonstrate a local monitoring and control policy for maintaining allowable concentration levels.
[23] Cunyi Li,Jian Liu,Le Dong ,等.Phase field fracture in elastoplastic solids: a stress-state, strain-rate, and orientation dependent model in explicit dynamics and its applications to additively manufactured metals[J].Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids,2025,197 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Phase field models have gained increasing popularity in analysing fracture behaviour of materials. However, few studies have been explored to simulate dynamic ductile fracture to date. This study aims to develop a phase field framework that considers strain rate, stress state, and orientation dependent ductile fracture under dynamic loading. Firstly, the governing equations of displacement and phase fields are formulated within an explicit finite element framework. Secondly, constitutive relations are established using a hypoelastic-plasticity framework, encompassing the influence of material orientation and strain rate on both plasticity and fracture initiation. Stress state dependent fracture initiation is also considered. Thirdly, the finite element implementation and corotational formulation of constitutive equations are derived. Finally, to validate the proposed model, additively manufactured samples, including material-level and crack propagation specimens, are tested under dynamic loading conditions. Overall, the proposed phase field model can properly reproduce the experimental force-displacement curves and crack paths. Uniaxial tension tests reveal that a higher strain rate can lead to a higher hardening curve and reduced ductility. Other material specimens further demonstrate the model's capability to predict stress state and orientation dependent dynamic fracture. To simulate dynamic crack paths accurately, it is necessary to consider anisotropic fracture initiation. Lastly, the phase field model was applied for the first time to predict the dynamic response of triply periodic minimal surface (TPMS) structures. Dynamic crack patterns were effectively captured, and the fracture mechanisms were thoroughly analysed. This study provides an explicit phase field framework for dynamic ductile fracture, with applications to additively manufactured materials and structures.
[24] Zixu Chen,Linlin Sun,Linlong Jing ,等.Explicit dynamics simulation study to determine the damage patterns of apples (Red Fuji) under impact loading[J].Journal of Stored Products Research,2025,113 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Collisions between apples and mechanical structures are inevitable during the harvest of fresh-market fruit. Even moderate impacts can lead to internal damage, significantly affecting the shelf life and quality of the fruit. In recent years, technologies such as spatial frequency domain imaging and structured light reflection imaging have made progress in early damage detection. However, considering both economic feasibility and practical applicability, there remains a need to explore accurate and quantitative methods for damage assessment. To address this issue, this study constructed a 3D model of ‘Red Fuji’ apples through physical experiments and reverse engineering. Explicit dynamic simulations based on the finite element method were conducted to evaluate the mechanical damage under various impact conditions. A total of 125 simulation scenarios were designed by combining five impact heights, five impact angles, and five contact materials. Key data and visual representations of stress evolution were obtained from the simulations. Results indicated that the highest damage susceptibility occurred when apples impacted steel at a height of 20 cm and an angle of 135°, while the lowest damage susceptibility was observed when impacting polyvinyl chloride at a height of 15 cm and an angle of 90°. Furthermore, a response surface methodology was employed to analyze the quantitative values of damage susceptibility. The maximum discrepancies between experimental and simulated results in terms of damage depth, area, and volume were 0.90 cm, 2.94 cm<sup>2</sup>, and 11.85 cm<sup>3</sup>, respectively. The prediction error of damage susceptibility ranged from 0.883 to 11.3 %. The consistency of the damage patterns further validates that the finite element model can effectively simulate apple damage under specific impact scenarios. This study provides insights for reducing mechanical damage during harvesting.
[25] Klimas, M.,Lukoševičius, V.,Kilikevičius, S. .Explicit Dynamic Finite-Element Modelling of High-Velocity Ballistic Impact on Carbon-Fiber Composite Armor Plates: Ply-Orientation Optimization for Ballistic Resistance[M].Transport Means - Proceedings of the International Conference,2025,2025-October :360-367,Kauno Technologijos Universitetas
摘要：This study investigates the ballistic resistance and behaviour of composite armour plates under high-velocity ballistic impact using computational finite-element (FE) analysis. The research has been motivated by defence industry – ammunition manufacturing, ballistic protection materials applications, ballistic protection panels for helicopters, armoured infantry vehicles and war fighters’ personal protection equipment such as ballistic helmets and vests – and it follows widely used qualification standards NATO STANAG 2920 “Ballistic test method for personal armour materials and combat clothing”, NATO STANAG 4569 “Procedures for evaluating the protection levels of logistic and light armoured vehicles for KE and artillery threats”, and the U.S. National Institute of Justice (NIJ) Standard 0101.06. These standards define protection levels and test methods for specific ballistic threats. Ballistic resistance standards propose ballistic resistance performance criteria and test protocols used in order to determine protection levels against specified ballistic threats. In this research, composite ballistic plates are modelled using numerical finite-element method using ANSYS Explicit Dynamics to assess performance of composite armour plate after high-velocity projectile ballistic impact with emphasis on composite material ply orientation. Constituent material properties are analysed and different ply orientations are evaluated, leading to the determination of laminate stacking sequences that enhance energy absorption and lower penetration and back-face deformation under high-velocity projectile impact. © 2025 Kaunas University of Technology, 2025.
[26] 张炜,唐捷,邬满 ,等.架空线路压接工艺的显式动力学分析方法研究[J].机械设计与研究,2023,39 (1):71-74,81
摘要：针对架空线路因压接工艺所导致的松动滑脱、疲劳断裂问题,构建有限元仿真模型。考虑显式动力学仿真分析中导线压接试件的阻力与位移、速度及加速度有关参数,确定试件的钢芯、钢锚、铝股与铝管的应力特性参数对有限元模型中心差分法稳定性的影响,并由此研究试件的工艺参数。仿真分析采用Solidworks完成三维建模,并将处理完毕后的压接线夹、导线三维模型导入AnsysWorkbench进行显式动力学仿真分析。运用ANSYS Workbench程序中的显式动力学分析系统计算导线在耐张线夹压接载荷下结构的响应(即导线部件的位移、应力)。从导线压接模型应力分布、导线压接模型位移、耐张线夹出口处铝股的失效应力等可知,仿真结果合理,可为架空导线等其他相似结构的设计选型、生产运维提供借鉴。
[27] 张龙,张号,王朝兵 ,等.显式动力学驱动的轴承变工况故障诊断方法[J].中国机械工程,2023,34 (8):982-992,Chinese Mechanical Engineering Society
摘要：实际工程应用中,旋转机械通常处于变工况状态,不同工况样本特征分布的差异限制了故障诊断模型的应用范围。为解决变工况下特征分布不一致的问题,提出了显式动力学驱动的轴承变工况故障诊断方法。首先,采用有限元法仿真多工况、多故障类型的样本,通过冗余属性投影得到不同故障类型下的仿真投影矩阵;然后,利用仿真投影矩阵同步消除实测信号特征样本的复杂工况冗余信息;最后,结合支持向量机进行轴承变工况的故障诊断。通过两组变工况轴承数据集对所提方法进行验证,验证结果表明,仿真投影矩阵有效消除了冗余工况信息,投影后的故障诊断准确率达到100%。
[28] Shi, Yingjie,Liu, Hongjie,Yang, Xin ,等.Optimization of Sawing Parameters for Apple Tree Branches and Study on the Influence of Support System Based on Explicit Dynamics and Response Surface Methodology[J].Agriculture,2026,16 (8),MDPI
摘要：In the mechanized pruning process of apple trees, reasonably matching cutting parameters is the key to reducing energy consumption and improving pruning quality. The conventional empirical parameter configuration usually ignores the vibration suppression effect of the branch support system, resulting in unstable cutting processes and poor cross-section quality. This study systematically investigated the influences of saw blade rotational speed, feed speed, and active support system on the sawing process of apple branches, aiming to obtain optimal operating parameters through a closed-loop research method of "simulation, optimization, and verification". An explicit dynamic finite element model was established for multi-branch staggered sawing with three saw blades. The influence trends of each factor were analyzed via single-factor tests. A three-factor, three-level orthogonal experiment was designed based on the Box-Behnken method, and a response surface prediction model of sawing force was constructed. Regression analysis showed that the established model was extremely significant (p < 0.01). The order of factors affecting sawing force from primary to secondary was as follows: feed speed > number of support components > saw blade rotational speed. Multi-objective optimization yielded the optimal parameter combination: rotational speed of 2500 r/min, feed speed of 2 km/h, and five support components. A prototype was manufactured according to these parameters, and field verification tests were carried out in orchards. Taking the qualified rate of cross-section quality and the missed-cut rate as evaluation indexes, the qualified rate under optimized parameters reached 95.07%, which was significantly higher than 83.11% under traditional parameters, and the missed-cut rate decreased from 11.27% to 2.63%. Results indicate that the collaborative optimization mode of "medium-high rotational speed, moderate feed speed, and active support" enables the low-vibration and high-
[29] Prajapati, Akash,Devesh,Singh, Manvandra Kumar ,等.Deformation Analysis of Stainless Steel (SUS304) Bottle Dropped from a Height Using ANSYS Explicit Dynamics[M].Lecture Notes in Mechanical Engineering,2025,Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH
摘要：Deflate in stainless steel bottle are generally common particularly on the cap due to the falling of the bottle on the floor results in poor appearance of the bottle. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the impact behaviour and deformation characteristics of stainless steel water bottles under drop test simulations. Using the Finite Element Analysis (FEA) method, various parameters including thickness, angle, and filling status of the bottle were modified to assess their influence on deformation and plastic strain. The simulations were performed using ANSYS Explicit Dynamics software. The results revealed that as the impact angle increased, the total deformation of the bottle exhibited a significant increase, while the equivalent plastic strain decreased. Among the different cases analysed, the bottle with a 2.5 mm cap thickness and a 0.5 mm body thickness, when filled with water, exhibited the least average total deformation and equivalent plastic strain. These findings highlight the importance of considering the design parameters of stainless steel bottles to minimize deformation during impact events. The study demonstrates the utility of drop test simulations and Finite Element Analysis in evaluating and optimizing bottle designs, reducing the need for costly physical prototypes. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2025.
[30] .基于逆向建模与显式动力学的核桃破壳仿真与试验[J].农机化研究,2026,48 (9):224-233
摘要：针对核桃初加工环节破壳设备落后、人工破壳效率低,机械破壳难以兼顾破壳率与整仁率的产业痛点,开展了核桃受压破裂力学特性研究。选用新疆温185核桃为研究对象,通过Reality Capture三维建模软件逆向建模,借助ANSYS Workbench有限元软件开展静力学与显示动力学仿真,分析核桃受压的应力应变特征、破壳临界挤压量和裂缝延展规律;搭建挤压试验台,采用平板式、四点式和多点式压头分别开展核桃挤压破壳对比试验,验证仿真可行性并量化不同压头的破壳效果。静力学仿真结果显示,核桃受横径方向平板挤压时最大等效应力达35.56 MPa,且集中于与压头的接触区域;显示动力学仿真确定核桃破裂阶段等效应力稳定在(15±1)MPa,挤压速度对破壳应力影响较小,裂缝先在接触区域凹槽萌生并沿天然缝合线向尖角延展;挤压试验表明,两点式、四点式与多点式压头均能在相同挤压量下保持相近的破壳率,但多点式压头在相同压缩量下的整仁率明显更高,可在高效破壳的同时最大限度保障果仁完整性,综合破壳性能显著优于其余两类。研究验证了核桃破壳有限元仿真的可行性,明确了核桃受压破裂的力学规律与不同压头的破壳特性,可为核桃破壳装置的研发提供理论基础。
[31] Feilong Wang,Peter Xiaoping Liu .A hybrid implicit–explicit finite element framework for real-time bioheat transfer simulation in deformable biological tissue[J].Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine,2026,280 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Real-time simulation of bioheat transfer in deformable tissues is essential for realistic surgical training, yet it remains challenging due to stringent requirements for numerical stability and computational efficiency. To overcome these limitations, we propose a unified finite element framework that seamlessly integrates implicit and explicit schemes, enabling real-time updates of tissue deformation while maintaining computationally efficient thermal simulations.
[32] Wang, Fanyu,Zhou, Jianbo,Miao, Zhengkun ,等.Simulation and Experimental Analysis of Camellia oleifera Fruit Shedding Based on Finite Element Explicit Dynamics[J].BioResources,2023,18 (4):8394-8408,NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIV DEPT WOOD & PAPER SCI
摘要：As an important oil crop in China and the world, the harvesting problem of Camellia oleifera has attracted much attention. Research is needed on mechanical characteristics of harvesting equipment. Explicit dynamics was used to establish a finite element model under a simulated load response to the branch-pedicel-fruit system of C. oleifera to predict the fracture process at the pedicel junction. The separation mechanism of C. oleifera fruit was determined by measuring the constitutive parameters of fruit branches and pedicels and conducting separation experiments and explicit dynamics simulations on different hanging fruits. The maximum stress at the fruit pedicel was 1.14 MPa, and the goodness of fit between the simulation and experiment was approximately 89.5%, indicating that the branch-pedicel-fruit finite element model could accurately reflect the fruit shedding process and that the pedicel diameter was correlated positively with the separation force. This study provides technical parameters for the optimized design of existing C. oleifera harvesting equipment.
[33] Vaibhav Sahni .Letter to the Editor: Explicit dynamics[J].Oral Surgery, Oral Medicine, Oral Pathology and Oral Radiology,2026,141 (4):570-570,Elsevier Science
摘要：I write further to a recent paper published in the Triple O entitled “Three-dimensional finite element assessment of grid-type plate in two different designs of sagittal split osteotomy of the mandibular ramus.” The authors have mentioned that the...
[34] Pengcheng Liu,Mi Zhao,Junqi Zhang ,等.Implicit-explicit time stepping for 3D dynamic dam-reservoir-foundation interaction analysis using the scaled boundary finite element method on octree meshes[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2026,448, Part A ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In large-scale three-dimensional fluid-structure interaction (FSI) problems, complex interfaces between heterogeneous media often require locally highly refined meshes, especially near fluid-structure interfaces where coupling behavior occurs. This fine-scale discretization imposes severe restrictions on global time steps, making standard explicit schemes with lumped mass matrices inefficient or inapplicable without manual adjustments. Although fully implicit methods allow for the choice of larger time steps, they involve solving large monolithically coupled systems, leading to high computational and memory costs. Moreover, traditional finite element methods suffer from poor mesh transition near material interfaces, further reducing efficiency in multi-material domains. To address these issues, this study presents an implicit-explicit (IMEX) scaled boundary finite element method (SBFEM) combined with automatic octree-based mesh generation. An octree-based discretization facilitates localized mesh refinement near interfaces, allowing efficient representation of complex domains, while SBFEM provides a natural framework due to its compatibility with polyhedral elements. Then, an IMEX time integration scheme is developed, in which implicit methods are applied locally to regions with fine meshes and coupling domains, such as fluid- structure interfaces, while explicit methods are used elsewhere to maintain overall computational efficiency. This targeted treatment alleviates time step restrictions and robustly handles interface coupling, significantly enhancing computational efficiency. The approach is validated by benchmark FSI problems and applied to the dynamic analysis of a dam-reservoir-foundation system, demonstrating its accuracy and practicality for large-scale engineering simulations.
[35] Eduardo Santana Jacob,Luma Caroline Vendrame,Milena Gomes Melo Leite ,等.Response to “Explicit dynamics”[J].Oral Surgery, Oral Medicine, Oral Pathology and Oral Radiology,2026,141 (4):571-571,Elsevier Science
摘要：We appreciate Dr Sahni’s interest in our article, “Three-dimensional finite element assessment of grid-type plate in two different designs of sagittal split osteotomy of the mandibular ramus.” The comments provide an opportunity to clarify methodo...
[36] 芦烨,邹士瑶,丁宇奇 ,等.基于显式动力学计算的储罐内爆破坏影响分析[J].安全与环境工程,2024,31 (1):75-87
摘要：储罐作为存储油气资源及其产品的主要设备,一旦发生爆炸并产生破坏,罐内燃烧的液体极有可能会从破坏位置流出,进而形成流淌火,将会造成无法挽回的大规模安全事故。以立式拱顶储罐为研究对象,考虑储罐结构与内外流体间的多相耦合,建立了罐内流体-储罐-罐外流体的内爆破坏三维有限元模型,并基于指数内聚力模型失效准则对储罐材料进行描述,通过在材料中插入黏结单元的方法模拟储罐的裂口扩展过程,开展内爆载荷作用下储罐的显式动力学破坏分析。结果表明:储罐起裂位置均位于液位以上,罐体起裂速度与起爆位置呈现正相关;随着内爆载荷的持续作用,储罐裂口不断扩展延伸至液位时,其扩展速度有所减缓;满罐液位状态下储罐未产生裂口,半罐液位降至空罐液位时,储罐平均破坏比由78.8%增至88.4%,储罐破坏程度与液位高度呈现负相关;储罐偏心起爆平均破坏比较中心起爆高1.6%,即储罐偏心起爆破坏程度更严重;储罐容积由1000m^(3)增至5000m^(3)时,若液位占储罐高度低于46%,储罐平均破坏比由88.2%增至88.6%,反之,储罐平均破坏比由86.4%降至84.4%。研究结果可为储罐爆炸事故的预防以及储罐弱顶结构的补强设计提供参考依据。
[37] 张万年,刘焕虎,李骁杰 ,等.堤防滑坡段三维显式有限元稳定分析及参数反演[J].红水河,2025,44 (6):70-74
摘要：针对某堤防加固工程中出现的滑坡问题,为揭示其失稳机理并评估加固后堤防的抗滑稳定性,该研究建立一套完整的分析方法。采用显式有限元法构建三维模型,通过参数反演确定土体真实抗剪强度参数,并基于反演结果开展淤泥层与上覆土层厚度的敏感性分析,探究二者对堤防安全系数的影响规律。结果表明:显式有限元法计算得到的滑坡段安全系数为0.68,与简化毕肖普法结果吻合良好;参数反演显示土体实际抗剪强度约为勘察建议值的1.5倍;敏感性分析表明安全系数随淤泥层厚度增加而降低,随上覆土层厚度增加而提高,且变化率均呈递减趋势。研究表明,显式有限元法适用于堤防抗滑稳定分析,当淤泥层厚度大于4 m时应采取加固措施,而增加上覆土层厚度可作为有效的工程措施。研究成果可为类似堤防工程的稳定性评价与加固设计提供重要参考。
[38] Guarino, Giuliano,Voet, Yannis,Antolin, Pablo ,等.Stabilization techniques for immersogeometric analysis of plate and shell problems in explicit dynamics[J].arXiv,2025,arXiv
摘要：Finite element plate and shell formulations are ubiquitous in structural analysis for modeling all kinds of slender structures, both for static and dynamic analyses. The latter are particularly challenging as the high order nature of the underlying partial differential equations and the slenderness of the structures all impose a stringent constraint on the critical time step in explicit dynamics. Unfortunately, badly cut elements in immersed finite element discretizations further aggravate the issue. While lumping the mass matrix often increases the critical time step, it might also trigger spurious oscillations in the approximate solution thereby compromising the numerical solution. In this article, we extend our previous work in [1] to allow stable immersogeometric analysis of plate and shell problems with lumped mass matrices. This technique is based on polynomial extensions and restores a level of accuracy comparable to boundary-fitted discretizations. © 2025, CC BY.
[39] Liu, De-Shin,Chien, Jason,Hsieh, Yu-Chung ,等.Crashworthiness Design of the Vehicle Interior by Using Brain Pressure Tolerance and Explicit Finite Element Approach[M],2025,Crashworthiness and Occupant Protection in Transportation Systems :383-394,American Society of Mechanical Engineers Digital Collection
摘要：This paper proposes a systematic computer simulation technique and uses Brain Pressure Tolerance (BPT) as a criterion to help vehicle designers evaluate interior impact occupant protection. The state-of-the-art methodology present here provides a unique insight into the relationship between the kinematics of the head motion and the associated dynamic transient response of the skull-brain structure. A three-dimensional skull-brain finite element model is used for this study This model is validated against experimental data and implemented to simulate various head impact conditions. Nonlinear explicit finite element formulation is used for analyzing the transient response of the impact. The crashworthiness design of vehicle interior structure to meet 15 mph free headform impact test has been selected as an example to demonstrate the validity of the new technique. It is also demonstrated that, an Head Injury Criterion (HIC) of 1000 may not provide sufficient protection for the short time (1-5 msec) hard surface impact.
[40] Fuzheng Gao,Shangyou Zhang .An Explicit Superconvergent Weak Galerkin Finite Element Method for the Heat Equation[J].Advances in Applied Mathematics and Mechanics,2025,17 (2):538-553,Global Science Press
摘要：An explicit two-order superconvergent weak Galerkin finite element method is designed and analyzed for the heat equation on triangular and tetrahedral *** two-order superconvergent Pk weak Galerkin finite elements,the auxiliary inter-element functions must be Pk+1 *** order to achieve the superconvergence,the usual H1-stabilizer must be also *** time-explicit weak Galerkin method,a time-stabilizer is added,on which the time-derivative of the auxiliary variables can be *** for the two-order superconvergent weak Galerkin finite elements,the time-stabilizer must be very weak,an H^(-2)-like inner-product instead of an L^(2)-like *** show the two-order superconvergence for both semi-discrete and fully-discrete *** examples are provided.
[41] 陈成军,陈小伟,柳明 .显式有限元侵蚀接触搜索算法研究[J].北京理工大学学报,2022,42 (1):1-10,Beijing Institute of Technology
摘要：侵蚀接触是弹体穿甲/侵彻等冲击动力学问题数值模拟与显式有限元程序的核心算法.文中基于接触界面的点-面离散模型,发展了一种有效、精确的侵蚀接触搜索算法.新算法通过引入历史状态量跟踪从点对主片的穿透历史,并结合接触强度方法,克服从点对主片穿透定义的歧义性,精确确定出从点-主片接触对及其相应的接触方向;对于接触点计算,建立了一种非迭代的计算方法,提高了接触计算的稳定性.文中算法基于自主研发的大型并行显式有限元程序PANDA-Impact实现,并利用典型算例进行了验证.数值模拟结果表明,文中建立的侵蚀接触搜索算法可以用于复杂问题模拟并具有较高的计算精度.
[42] Hassan M. Asadkandi,Tomáš Mánik,Bjørn Holmedal ,等.Open-source implementations and comparison of explicit and implicit crystal-plasticity finite element methods[J].Computers & Structures,2025,307 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, two state-of-the-art implementations of the rate-dependent Crystal Plasticity Finite Element Method (CPFEM) as user material subroutines in the finite element solvers Abaqus/Explicit and Abaqus/Standard (Implicit) are presented. Adaptive substepping in the explicit solver and line-search stabilized implementation in the implicit solver enable fast and stable calculations also for small strain-rate sensitivities. A comparative analysis of simulation results is made and computation times of the two implementations are compared and discussed, including the use of reduced-integration elements and mass scaling for the explicit solver. It is identified under which conditions the explicit or the implicit solver is preferred.
[43] Ruhela, Harmit Singh,Bhardwaj, Shashwat,Agrawal, Teerth ,等.Explicit Dynamics Analysis of Shin Pads Using Finite Element Analysis[M].Lecture Notes in Mechanical Engineering,2024,Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH
摘要：The shin pad is the most crucial piece of protective equipment used in a variety of sports. It aids in the prevention of sprain and, in the worst-case scenario, fracture-related shin injuries. Shin pads are often constructed of polypropylene or polyethylene, as well as some high-resistance materials like carbon fiber, glass fiber and Kevlar. Years ago, the planning of personalized shin pads began, which resulted in a lack of major material and rigidity advantages as compared to regular ones. The major goal of this study is to figure out if the customized shin pad would be safe from any failure under desired conditions. Furthermore, using finite element analysis, this study examines the approach to the working and manufacturing of commercially used shin pads by finding and modeling the preferred design that is safe under the appropriate stress. This study consists of an explicit dynamics analysis of the shin pad as it is perpendicularly impacted by the cleat of synthetic leather football boots (studs). The range of velocity used in impact analysis is 28–32 km/h, which matches the speed of a football player during tackles. © 2024, The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.
[44] Radtke, Lars,Torre, Michele,Hughes, Thomas J. R. ,等.An analysis of high order FEM and IGA for explicit dynamics: Mass lumping and immersed boundaries[J].International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering,2024,125 (16),WILEY
摘要：We investigate the behavior of different shape functions for the discretization of hyperbolic problems. In particular, we consider classical Lagrange polynomials and B-splines. The studies focus on the performance of the these functions as a spatial discretization approach combined with an explicit time marching scheme. In this regard, a major concern is the maximum eigenvalue that imposes restrictions on the critical time step size and suitable lumping techniques that yield a diagonal mass matrix. The accuracy of the discretization methods is assessed in an asymptotic manner in terms of the convergence of eigenvalues and eigenvectors. Further, the global accuracy is investigated in terms of the full spectrum. The results show that B-spline discretization with a consistent mass matrix are more accurate than those based on Lagrange shape functions, which holds true in the boundary-fitted as well as in the immersed setting. On the other hand, Lagrange shape functions are more robust with respect to standard lumping techniques, which cannot be directly applied for B-splines without loss of accuracy. In general, we observe that none of the standard lumping schemes yields optimal results for B-splines, even in the boundary-fitted setting. For the immersed setting, also Lagrange shape functions show a drop in accuracy which depends on the position of the boundary that cuts the element. Several remedies are considered in order to overcome these issues, including interpolatory B-spline bases as well as eigenvalue stabilization methods. While accuracy and stability can be improved using these remedies, we conclude from our study that it is still an open question, how to design a discretization method that achieves large critical time step sizes in combination with a diagonal mass matrix and high accuracy in the immersed setting. We note that these considerations primarily relate to linear structural dynamics applications, such as for example, structural acoustics. In nonline
[45] Sansgiri, Sanjiv Manohar .Virtual design study of electrical connector insertion and post insertion processes using explicit finite element method[J].Engineering Research Express,2026,8 (3):035508-035508,IOP Publishing Ltd
摘要：Electrical Connectors are normally overdesigned and optimizing their dimensions has often not been in focus. Standardization in the industry has paved way to adopting similar architecture when it comes to leveraging shape, size and other details. Modeling, Simulation and Analysis hence of tiny electrical Connectors can pose a challenge while undergoing changes by validation. The study employs explicit formulation Finite Element Method based virtual engineering strategy and tools to model Connector assembly and the connection process that includes insertion and the post insertion squeezing of Connector. Performance is predicted, capturing nonlinearities encountered during its functioning. Variations are incorporated in model to see their impact and design iteration for bringing stability to the response is also implemented to prescribe changes to the architecture. The study proposes an Electrical Connector Assembly design to control Contact Bouncing and Sparking.
[46] Wenjuan Li,Fuzheng Gao,Jintao Cui .Error analysis of implicit-explicit weak Galerkin finite element method for time-dependent nonlinear convection-diffusion problem[J].Applied Numerical Mathematics,2025,209 :232-241,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper focuses on the exploration of an implicit-explicit (IMEX) weak Galerkin finite element method (WG-FEM) applied to a one-dimensional nonlinear convection-diffusion equation. Based on a special weak form featuring two built-in parameters, we propose the fully implicit-explicit discrete WG finite element scheme. The diffusion term is treated implicitly, while the nonlinear convection term is treated explicitly. The WG-FEM utilizes locally piecewise polynomials of degree <em>k</em> to approximate the primal variable within the element interiors, along with piecewise polynomials of degree <span class="math"><math><mi is="true">k</mi><mo is="true" linebreak="goodbreak" linebreakstyle="after">+</mo><mn is="true">1</mn></math></span> for the weak derivatives. Optimal error estimates in the <span class="math"><math><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">L</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">2</mn></mrow></msup></math></span> norm for the fully discrete scheme are derived in the theoretical analysis. Furthermore, we conduct numerical experiments to illustrate the effectiveness and accuracy of the proposed scheme.
[47] Xinggang Cao,Xiang Zhao,Zhenhui Liu ,等.A Multi-GPU explicit finite element framework with a parallel contact algorithm for drop testing of electronic products[J].Advances in Engineering Software,2026,213 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To overcome the limitations of single Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) configurations in terms of computational resources and acceleration performance, this study develops a multi-GPU parallel computing framework for the explicit finite element method (FEM) that incorporates a parallel contact algorithm. A hybrid parallelization approach is adopted, combining coarse-grained parallelism with subdomains mapped to GPUs and fine-grained parallelism with elements mapped to threads, along with a stream-per-element-type concurrency technique to achieve efficient multi-GPU computation of element internal forces. For the global contact search phase, a GPU-to-GPU contact node communication algorithm is designed, and a GPU-parallelized bucket sort algorithm is developed. To address inter-GPU contact node drift after sliding, a communication and reorganization strategy for remote nodes is proposed. A complete inter-GPU contact force communication scheme is constructed based on the penalty contact algorithm. The performance of the proposed multi-GPU explicit FEM framework is evaluated through a series of benchmark simulations, demonstrating a maximum speedup of 223.29 on four GPUs, significantly enhancing the computational efficiency for drop-test simulations.
[48] Wen Liu,Shuangchao Huang,Hongfeng Qi ,等.Explicit finite element simulations of dynamic low adhesion behavior between wheel and rail in the presence of high-frequency vibrations[J].Engineering Computations,2024,41 (5):1185-1202,Elsevier Science
摘要：Dynamic low adhesion (DLA) has become an urgent problem for the high-speed wheel-rail system because of continuous decrease of adhesion redundancy in the past decades. This article aims to provide a simulation method to reveal the mechanism of DLA under high-frequency vibrations.
[49] Bürchner, Tim,Radtke, Lars,Eisenträger, Sascha ,等.Generalized eigenvalue stabilization for immersed explicit dynamics[J].arXiv,2025,arXiv
摘要：Explicit time integration for immersed finite element discretizations severely suffers from the influence of poorly cut elements. In this contribution, we propose a generalized eigenvalue stabilization (GEVS) strategy for the element mass matrices of cut elements to cure their adverse impact on the critical time step size of the global system. We use spectral basis functions, specifically C0 continuous Lagrangian interpolation polynomials defined on Gauss-Lobatto-Legendre (GLL) points, which, in combination with its associated GLL quadrature rule, yield high-order convergent diagonal mass matrices for uncut elements. Moreover, considering cut elements, we combine the proposed GEVS approach with the finite cell method (FCM) to guarantee definiteness of the system matrices. However, the proposed GEVS stabilization can directly be applied to other immersed boundary finite element methods. Numerical experiments demonstrate that the stabilization strategy achieves optimal convergence rates and recovers critical time step sizes of equivalent boundary-conforming discretizations. This also holds in the presence of weakly enforced Dirichlet boundary conditions using either Nitsche’s method or penalty formulations. © 2025, CC BY.
[50] Changhui Yao,Lei Li,Yanmin Zhao .An energy stable implicit-explicit finite element method/BDF-k scheme for the Ginzburg-Landau equation[J].Communications in Nonlinear Science and Numerical Simulation,2026,152 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A high-order implicit-explicit (IMEX) finite element method with energy stability is constructed to solve the Ginzburg-Landau equation (GLE) with periodic boundary condition. The fully-discrete scheme consists of the BDF-<span class="math"><math><mi is="true">k</mi></math></span> in temporal direction and finite element method in spatial direction, respectively. Moreover, the coefficients of the proposed modified energy are determined and its decreasing property is demonstrated. And then, the optimal error estimates in both <span class="math"><math><msup is="true"><mi is="true">L</mi><mn is="true">2</mn></msup></math></span>-norm and <span class="math"><math><msup is="true"><mi is="true">H</mi><mn is="true">1</mn></msup></math></span>-norm are provided without any restrictions between time step <span class="math"><math><mi is="true">τ</mi></math></span> and mesh size <span class="math"><math><mi is="true">h</mi></math></span> by using the temporal-spatial splitting technology. Finally, numerical examples are conducted to substantiate the theoretical results.
[51] Karan Kodagali,Subramani Sockalingam,Dennis Miller ,等.Inertia-based dynamic stress field reconstruction for one-dimensional stress wave propagation combining full-field accelerations and explicit finite element method[J].International Journal of Impact Engineering,2026,216 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Dynamic high strain rate deformation induces inertial and strain rate sensitive material response resulting in transient stress-strain states under dynamic equilibrium and non-equilibrium conditions. To reconstruct spatio-temporal stress fields in such situations, a novel method combining digital image correlation (DIC) full-field calculated deformations and an explicit dynamic finite element method (EFEM) is applied. The method utilizes finite element discretization of the specimen domain where measured boundary forces and DIC full-field measurements, including both displacements and accelerations, as input without requiring knowledge of material properties. The measured input in this non-parametric approach is used to calculate finite element internal forces, and hence the stress fields based on the measured accelerations, within each continuum finite element by solving the governing equations of motion using the EFEM framework. The current work focuses on application/validation by considering one-dimensional stress wave propagation in a ‘long’ specimen (50.8 mm) subjected to dynamic far-field compression loading by using a relatively short striker bar (101.6 mm) in a split Hopkinson Pressure bar (SHPB) to introduce transient stress states. EFEM stress field reconstruction method is first verified using simulated data from a 3D SHPB FE model within LS-DYNA of an aluminum specimen subjected to far-field compressive loading. The methodology is further assessed through experiments, using measured surface deformations on an aluminum specimen subjected to SHPB compression loading. EFEM stress field reconstructions using experimental data are similar to the FEA stresses. For softer materials, an additional experiment on a 3D printed polymeric specimen is performed, with EFEM stress field reconstructions in agreement with expected material behavior. Stress-strain data using the EFEM stress field reconstruction methodology more accurately describes the material behavior i
[52] Runqiu Wang,Guilin Wang,Xinjie Yang ,等.Explicit finite element material point method coupled with phase-field model for solid brittle fracture[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,316 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Material fracture is one of the main causes of material instability and damage. To investigate the brittle fracture propagation behavior of solid materials, an explicit finite element material point coupled with phase-field model (PF-FEMPM) is proposed. This method discretizes the solid into finite elements and embeds them into Euler grids, effectively avoiding issues such as numerical errors between particles when two particles are separated by an empty grid, as well as difficulties in applying boundary conditions, which are common in the phase-field material point method (PF-MPM). Integration points within the elements serving as material points are calculated by finite element method to store internal variables, while the finite element mesh nodes are used to store external forces and apply boundary conditions. The Euler grid is employed to integrate the momentum conservation equation and the phase-field dynamic evolution equation, and then map back to the finite element mesh nodes to update the nodes velocity and displacement. Mapping functions among integration points, finite element nodes, and background grid nodes are derived, and an algorithm is established using a forward difference solution scheme. Through a series of numerical examples, including single-edge notched tension problem, dynamic crack branching, a plate with center prefabricated crack under dynamic velocity boundary conditions, and the fragmentation of equal-thickness cylinder, the rationality and validity of the algorithm are verified.
[53] Sanchez-Rivadeneira, Alfredo G.,Duarte, Carlos Armando .On the Performance of an Explicit Generalized Finite-Element Method for One-Dimensional Elastodynamics Problems With Singularities[J].Computing in Science & Engineering,2026,28 (1):74-81,IEEE COMPUTER SOC
摘要：This article reports on a high-order generalized finite-element method (GFEM) that retains the computational efficiency and accuracy of the spectral element method (SEM) while removing its limitations when applied to elastodynamics problems with singular solutions in space. The GFEM basis enables the method to deliver high-order convergence rates for this class of problems while adopting uniform meshes. A variational mass lumping method is used to define block-diagonal mass matrices for the GFEM. This approach is not limited to polynomial shape functions like in the FEM and can be used with any element topology. Numerical experiments show that when applied to problems with singularities, the GFEM provides faster convergence than the SEM with interpolation nodes and quadrature located at Gauss-Legendre-Lobatto points (SEM-GLL). It is also shown that the critical time step of the GFEM is larger than for the SEM-GLL on nonuniform meshes designed to recover the optimal rate of the SEM-GLL.
[54] 苏丙杰,张平,熊超 ,等.显式算法的隧道明挖段结构受力模型有限元仿真分析[J].低温建筑技术,2025,47 (10):137-140
摘要：为研究挡土墙施工对隧道明挖段结构的影响,文中基于显式有限元法对隧道明挖段结构的实际受力情况进行仿真模拟,通过建立隧道明挖段结构的受力模型分析隧道明挖段结构在静力作用下的力学性能。仿真给出了隧道模型在静力作用下GD6B隧洞顶面中心点的荷载时间曲线和位移时间曲线,以及隧道明挖段结构的能量曲线和受拉损失等值线图。研究结果表明,随着位移不断加载,GD6B隧洞顶面中心点的荷载分别经历了弹性阶段、弹塑性阶段及破坏阶段;挡土的自重不会使隧道明挖段结构产生结构裂缝;裂缝的产生会造成势能转化为动能;隧道明挖段结构在荷载作用下,呈现典型的钢筋混凝土破坏特征。此研究为显式有限元模拟在实际工程中的应用,提供一定参考意义。
[55] Li, Huilong,Yan, Changfeng,Yang, Junbao ,等.Dynamic response and contact characteristics of shaft-bearing-pedestal system with localized defect using 2-D explicit dynamics finite element model[J].Journal of Vibroengineering,2023,25 (2):290-310,JVE INT LTD
摘要：As the core and precision component of a mechanical system, rolling element bearings would cause irreparable results once it breaks down. In order to study the dynamic response of bearing system caused by different localized defect sizes on outer raceway, a two-dimensional (2-D) explicit dynamics Finite Element Method (FEM) model of shaft-bearing-pedestal system with a localized defect is proposed. The model is verified by the experimental results. A new numerical method is used to investigate the influence of different defect sizes on the contact characteristics in this model. The indicator scf(defect-health) is introduced to study the contact force with different defect sizes. The results show that the scf(defect-health) increases with the increasing of defect depth and width, and the mathematic relationships are given for scf(defect-health). Therefore, the dynamic FEM model can be used to bearing fault diagnosis and defect prediction.
[56] K. Tian,J. Zhi,V.B.C. Tan ,等.An explicit finite element discrete crack analysis of open hole compression failure in composites[J].Composite Structures,2025,364 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper presents a comparative study of implicit and explicit finite element methods in simulating open hole compression (OHC) failure in composite laminates, employing the Discrete Crack Method (DCM) with the Floating Node Method (FNM) for enhanced accuracy in matrix crack modeling. The finite element models are built upon experimental OHC tests of carbon fiber/epoxy laminates with both ply-level and sub-laminate scaling. The models are validated through a series of simulations studying the effects of hole sizes on ultimate strength and damage modes. The FNM allows for accurate tracking of crack initiation and propagation. Additionally, parametric analysis further evaluates the impact of factors such as damping, mass scaling, and matrix cracks spacing on the simulation outcomes. The explicit method shows significant savings in computational times. The study demonstrates the effectiveness of the FNM within the explicit FEM framework for predicting OHC failure in composite laminates with precision and efficiency.
[57] Bernkopf, M.,Chaumont-frelet, T.,Melenk, J. M. .WAVENUMBER-EXPLICIT STABILITY AND CONVERGENCE ANALYSIS OF hp FINITE ELEMENT DISCRETIZATIONS OF HELMHOLTZ PROBLEMS IN PIECEWISE SMOOTH MEDIA[J].Mathematics of Computation,2025,94 (351):73-122,AMER MATHEMATICAL SOC
摘要：We present a wavenumber-explicit convergence analysis of the hp Finite Element Method applied to a class of heterogeneous Helmholtz problems with piecewise analytic coefficients at large wavenumber k . Our analysis covers the heterogeneous Helmholtz equation with Robin, exact Dirichlet-toNeumann, and second order absorbing boundary conditions, as well as perfectly matched layers.
[58] Romanova, Varvara A.,Balokhonov, Ruslan R.,Borodina, Anzhelika ,等.CRYSTAL PLASTICITY FINITE-ELEMENT SIMULATIONS FOR QUASISTATIC DEFORMATION OF POLYCRYSTALS IN TERMS OF EXPLICIT DYNAMICS[J].PNRPU Mechanics Bulletin,2023,2023 (5):57-73,Perm National Research Polytechnic University
摘要：Crystal plasticity models combined with an explicit consideration of a polycrystalline structure are an effective tool for studying the deformation phenomena throughout length scales. A numerical solution to the boundary-value problems with an explicit account for misrostructural features requires extensive computational resources. The use of explicit time integration schemes effectively reduces computational costs yet providing a quasistatic solution with a high degree of accuracy. In this paper, we discuss the numerical aspects of crystal plasticity finite element simulations of quasistatic deformation phenomena in terms of explicit dynamics. The equations for plastic strain rate are formulated in a way to minimize strain rate sensitivity, which is the necessary condition for simulating quasistatic deformation at artificially high strain rates. The problems of model verification and testing at the micro, meso, and macroscales are discussed using the example of aluminum single-and polycrystals. © PNRPU.
[59] Al-Rawi, Mohammad,Zheng, Li,Best, Russ .Explicit and Computational Fluid Dynamics Analysis of a Novel Polo Helmet Design: A Parametric Study[J].Journal of Engineering and Science in Medical Diagnostics and Therapy,2024,7 (2):021009,American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME)
摘要：Polo is a popular sport in New Zealand, Australia, the United Kingdom, and many other countries. Polo is a vigorous sport involving players and horses moving at speed and can result in head injuries caused by falls. Helmets play a vital role in the safety and protection of Polo players. This study investigates different hemispheric bumper shapes of the helmet to improve the impact resistance performance using finite element analysis (FEA) and explicit dynamics analysis (EDA). The aerodynamic performance of the proposed helmet is investigated using computational fluid dynamics (CFD) to account for drag impact on the Polo player’s speed. These are investigated for impact resistance and the drag coefficient under different speeds. The EDA results show that the new proposed bumper will absorb the impact and reduce the energy transferred to the inside foam at a relative impact speed of 6.2 m/s, as recommended by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), with a maximum total deformation of 4.42 mm compared to 4.19 mm and 3.85 mm for impact speeds of 5.9 m/s by the European standard PAS015:2011 helmets for equestrian use and 5.42 m/s BS EN 1078 helmets for bicyclists’ use, respectively. Additionally, under speeds ranging from 15 km/h to 65 km/h, the new helmet demonstrated a drag coefficient of 0.454, similar to that of the national team helmet, at 0.423. Copyright © 2024 by ASME.
[60] K. Tian,J. Zhi,V.B.C. Tan ,等.An explicit finite element analysis of Low-Velocity impact and compression after impact in composite laminates[J].Composite Structures,2025,371 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study investigates the numerical simulation of low-velocity impact (LVI) and compression after impact (CAI) in composite laminates using an explicit finite element (FE) framework based on the Floating Node Method (FNM). The performance of the explicit FNM model and its implicit counterpart were compared for three LVI and one CAI cases. The explicit framework integrates advanced failure models to simulate matrix cracking, fiber damage, and delamination, while geometric nonlinearity is addressed through an updated Lagrangian formulation. Results show that the explicit FNM method accurately predicts load–displacement behavior, damage evolution, and residual strength, demonstrating strong agreement with experimental data and improved computational efficiency compared to the implicit approach. These findings highlight the potential of the explicit FNM framework for efficient and accurate analysis of composite impact and post-impact performance with discrete crack models (DCMs).
[61] Kai Wang,Jun Lai,Jingmang Xu ,等.Multiscale analysis of wheel-rail rolling contact wear and damage mechanisms using molecular dynamics and explicit finite elements[J].Tribology International,2023,185 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：As traffic density and axle loads increase, the macroscopic wheel-rail contact can lead to severe rail wear. This paper constructs a multi-scale analysis framework from macroscopic force characteristics to microscopic wear mechanisms based on explicit finite element methods and molecular dynamics models. The study shows that the mutual proximity and annihilation of reverse dislocations in the rail material under the action of wheel-rail forces is an important cause of grain boundary fragmentation, while the proliferation of dislocations on the Subsurface leads to work hardening of the rail. The analytical framework proposed in this paper achieves a multiscale correlation between wheel-rail macroscopic contact and material microscopic response, and the conclusions obtained reveal the microscopic wear mechanism of rail materials. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[62] Tsuyoshi Ichimura,Kohei Fujita,Muneo Hori ,等.Fast and power efficient GPU-based explicit elastic wave propagation analysis by low-ordered orthogonal voxel finite element with INT8 Tensor Cores[J].Journal of Computational Science,2025,91 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：There is a strong need for faster and more power-efficient explicit elastic wavefield simulations for large and complex three-dimensional media using a structured finite element method. Such wavefield simulations are suitable for GPUs, which have been improving their computational performance in recent years, and the use of GPUs is expected to speed up such simulations. However, there is still room for speedup and improving energy efficiency of such simulations using GPUs, since the performance of GPUs is not fully exploited just by its simple use, and the conventional method involves some numerical dispersion. In this paper, we propose a method for fast and efficient explicit structured-mesh wavefield simulation on GPUs by utilizing INT8 Tensor Cores and reducing numerical dispersion. We implemented the proposed method on GPUs and evaluated its performance in detail using an application example that simulates a real problem, and showed that it is faster and more efficient than conventional methods on many-node CPU-based systems and multiple GPU-based systems. This paper is the extended version of Ichimura et al. (2024).<a class="anchor anchor-primary" data-sd-ui-side-panel-opener="true" data-xocs-content-id="b1" data-xocs-content-type="reference" href="#b1" name="bb1"><span class="anchor-text-container"><span class="anchor-text">[1]</span></span></a>
[63] Miller, T.J.,McNamara, Jack J.,O’hara, Patrick J. .A Mixed-Time Explicit-Implicit Generalized Finite Element Method for Multi-Scale Field Problems[M],2026,American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Inc, AIAA
摘要：Mixed-time explicit-implicit time-integration schemes are developed for the Generalized Finite Element Method (GFEM) for the simulation of transient multi-scale problems exhibiting highly-localized and non-stationary phenomena. The spatial domain is partitioned into implicit and explicit subdomains, enabling tailored time-steps and integration schemes for each subdomain. Individual subdomains are coupled together through the assembly of finite elements, inherently maintaining continuity without the need for complex interface coupling techniques. These characteristics result in a method that is highly amenable to parallelization and straightforward to implement, making it well-suited for large-scale computations. The temporal accuracy, convergence, and stability of the mixed-time explicit-implicit GFEM (mE-I GFEM) are assessed in the context of heat transfer problems experiencing thermal loads with sharp temporal and spatial gradients. The results demonstrate that the proposed mE-I GFEM is robust and efficient, yielding time-accurate solutions with improved stability criterion at a significantly reduced computational cost compared to G/FEM approaches using standard time-stepping schemes with uniform time-steps. © 2026, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Inc, AIAA. All rights reserved.
[64] Jing, Linlong,Wei, Xinhua,Song, Qi ,等.Mechanical Analysis of Rice Canopy Using Explicit Dynamics and Practical Applications of Canopy Opener[J].Agronomy,2023,13 (12),MDPI
摘要：Open-canopy pesticide application technology is not affected by the canopy structure and can substantially increase droplet penetration and deposition in the middle and lower rice canopy. However, the optimal working position of the canopy opener is difficult to determine. The purpose of this study was to examine the characteristics of rice canopy disturbances under the action of a canopy opener, verify simulation results using high-speed photography tests, and identify the spraying effect of the optimal operating parameters of a canopy opener through spray tests. The mechanical characteristic parameters of the rice heading stage were determined through experiments, and the canopy-opening process was simulated based on the finite element method of explicit dynamics. The simulation results show that when the speed of the canopy opener is 1.2 m s-1 and the height is 0.6 m, the rice canopy is the most disturbed. The spray experiment results show that under this condition, the overall coverage rate of the rice canopy is relatively high, and the coverage rates of the upper, middle, and lower layers of rice are 92.18%, 66.43%, and 52.84%, respectively.
[65] Emil Nutu,Stefan-Dan Pastrama,Lucian Gruionu ,等.Explicit dynamics simulation of the catheter movement during bronchoscopic sampling of pulmonary nodules[J].Materials Today: Proceedings,2023,93, Part 4 :630-635,Elsevier Science
摘要：The paper presents an explicit dynamics approach for modelling the catheter movement inside the bronchial tree. A numerical model of the bronchial tree is considered, and a straight beam is used to simulate the catheter. The purpose is to test whether such approach can be used for modeling catheter insertion process as a means for studying tissue interaction tools and for preintervention planning. It is shown that by proper combination of the imposed initial and boundary conditions it is possible to considerably reduce the computational cost while obtaining realistic physical tissue-tool interaction. © 2023
[66] Lin, Qiu,Qi, Ruisheng .Strong convergence for an explicit fully-discrete finite element approximation of the Cahn-Hillard-Cook equation with additive noise[J].Numerical Methods for Partial Differential Equations,2024,40 (1),WILEY
摘要：In this paper, we consider an explicit fully-discrete approximation of the Cahn-Hilliard-Cook (CHC) equation with additive noise, performed by a standard finite element method in space and a kind of nonlinearity-tamed Euler scheme in time. The main result in this paper establishes strong convergence rates of the proposed scheme. The key ingredient in the proof of our main result is to employ uniform moment bounds for the numerical approximations. To the best of our knowledge, the main contribution of this work is the first result in the literature which establishes strong convergence for an explicit fully-discrete finite element approximation of the CHC equation. Finally, numerical results are finally reported to confirm the previous theoretical findings.
[67] A.KESHMIRI,T.H.MOTTAGHI,A.R.MASOODI .A finite element-based novel approach to undamped vibrational analysis of complex curved beams with arbitrary curvature using explicit interpolation functions[J].Applied Mathematics and Mechanics(English Edition),2025,46 (11):2177-2198,Springer Berlin Heidelberg
摘要：Curved beams with complex geometries are vital in numerous engineering applications,where precise vibration analysis is crucial for ensuring safe and effective *** finite element methods(FEMs) often struggle to accurately represent the dynamic characteristics of these structures due to the limitations in their shape function *** overcome this challenge,the current study introduces an innovative finite element(FE)-based technique for the undamped vibrational analysis of curved beams with arbitrary curvature,employing explicitly derived interpolation ***,the exact interpolation functions are developed for circular are elements with the force *** functions facilitate the creation of a highly accurate stiffness matrix,which is validated against the benchmark *** accommodate arbitrary curvature,a systematic transformation technique is established to approximate the intricate curves with a series of circular *** numerical findings indicate that increasing the number of arc segments enhances accuracy,approaching the exact *** analysis of free vibrations is conducted for both circular and non-circular *** matrices are derived using two methods:lumped mass and consistent mass,where the latter is based on the interpolation *** effectiveness of the proposed method is confirmed through the comparisons with the existing literature,demonstrating strong ***,several practical cases involving beams with diverse curvature profiles are *** natural frequencies and mode shapes are determined,providing significant insights into the dynamic behavior of these *** research offers a dependable and efficient analytical framework for the vibrational analysis of complex curved beams,with promising implications for structural and mechanical engineering.
[68] Adamsab, Khadersab,Kulkarni, Vinayak V. .Nonlinear Explicit Finite Element Analysis (FEA) of Rotating Machinery Faults Using ANSYS LS-DYNA[M].Lecture Notes in Mechanical Engineering,2026,Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH
摘要：This paper presents a novel method for rolling element defect simulation for critical insights based on explicit finite element analysis using ANSYS to study the misalignment and imbalance with respect to time-domain spectrum obtained, and transform contact forces into the frequency domain via Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) in Python. The frequency spectrum obtained reveals defect characteristics. For the case to find rolling element defects exhibit high-frequency harmonics above 150 Hz. And for misalignment shows frequency harmonics ranges from 50 Hz with harmonics at 100 Hz. The last case of imbalance displays a 20 Hz frequency with sidebands. The study highlights the ability of advanced ML solutions for more accurate fault discovery in simulated systems, and real-time monitoring of the process, complements, and enhances accuracy, by expanding defect coverage. But it also contributes to the industrialization of nonlinear transient dynamic analysis. These findings emphasize the value of frequency analysis in Prognostics and Health Management. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2026.
[69] T. Kuhn,H. Gravenkamp,C. Birk .Explicit time-domain analysis of wave propagation in unbounded domains using the scaled boundary finite element method[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2024,168 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study proposes an explicit time-integration scheme for the scaled boundary finite element method applied to unbounded domains, leveraging the acceleration unit-impulse response formulation and a block-wise mass lumping strategy to enhance computational efficiency. Additionally, adopting an extrapolation scheme in the calculation of the linearly varying acceleration response and exploiting the asymptotically linear behavior by truncating the convolution integral leads to a robust and efficient explicit time-integration scheme. The proposed methodology is validated through numerical examples, demonstrating its potential for large-scale wave propagation problems in unbounded and heterogeneous media. © 2024 The Author(s)
[70] Ruochen Zheng,Bastian Schäfer,Auriane Platzer ,等.Predictive simulation of localized defects in Non-Crimp Fabric forming: A mesoscopic finite element approach with explicit stitching representation[J].Composites Part B: Engineering,2026,318 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Non-Crimp Fabric (NCF) reinforcements have demonstrated exceptional structural performance, but significant local defects such as fiber sliding, out-of-plane buckling and in-plane gapping are frequently observed during their forming process. This paper introduces a numerical modeling approach for biaxial NCF reinforcement based on a mesoscopic framework to simulate the forming process. The deformation mechanisms of NCF reinforcements are accounted for by separately modeling the fiber tows with solid elements and the polyester stitches with beam elements. The specific bending stiffness of the tow is included using an embedded element approach. The simulation results show good agreement with experimental data from hemisphere and square box forming tests, demonstrating the mesoscopic simulation’s capability to accurately predict the global fiber orientation in the final composite part and enhance the predictability of local forming effects. By explicitly modeling the stitches, the mesoscopic scale allows for an in-depth investigation of the mechanical role of stitching threads and facilitates understanding of how stitching behavior influences macroscale formability. Although these mesoscopic forming simulations require more computation time than macroscopic simulations, they remain computationally feasible and offer superior predictive accuracy.
[71] Boules N.Morkos,Rachel White,Mehdi Omidvar ,等.Calibration of empirical penetration models using large deformation explicit finite element simulations of rapid penetration in clay[J].Defence Technology（防务技术）,2025,50 (8):20-35,KeAi Communications Co.
摘要：Numerous former military sites worldwide require environmental cleanup from buried unexploded ordnance(UxO)that pose hazards such as leaching toxic chemicals and explosion ***,selecting the appropriate mitigation technology relies on prior knowledge of UxO depth of burial(DoB)at specific *** study utilizes numerical simulations,employing large deformation explicit finite element(LDEFE)analysis and the Coupled Eulerian-Lagrangian(CEL)approach,to model the penetration of ordnances into clay targets.A modified Tresca constitutive model is implemented in ABAQUS software to capture key features of clay behavior under high strain rate(HSR)*** role of various parameters on DoB is investigated,including undrained shear strength,stiffness,and density of the *** findings highlight the paramount importance of undrained shear strength in clayey soil penetrability,in addition to the role of soil stiffness,and *** simulations were employed to calibrate model parameters for Young's empirical penetration model,as well as the Poncelet phenomenological penetration model,demonstrating the efficacy of the numerical simulations in extrapolating its findings within the relevant parameter *** particular,the calibrated parameters of Young's and Poncelet's models can be identified as a direct function of the various discussed soil properties,which was previously unavailable.
[72] Cong, Jiang,Ding, Liu .Vibration Analysis of Bearing Cage Based on Explicit Dynamics of Complete Machine[M].Lecture Notes in Mechanical Engineering,2024,Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH
摘要：In this paper, based on the structural characteristics of air turbine starter itself, a high-precision finite element model of the whole engine is established by adopting the step-by-step modeling and confirmation method of the structural dynamics of the whole engine. Transient dynamics simulation calculation of a certain type of aviation air turbine starter is carried out under normal and abnormal conditions, so as to obtain the characteristics of vibration influence that may be brought by abnormal conditions with assembly deviations. The mechanical state and dynamic characteristics of bearing cages are quantified and compared, and the results show that the deviation of double gear assembly is one of the main reasons for the breakage of turbine end-supported bearing cages, while the change of bearing preload and eccentric assembly in a limited range of turbine angles have relatively little influence. © 2024, Chinese Society of Aeronautics and Astronautics.
[73] Patrick Ciarlet,Erell Jamelot .Explicit T -coercivity for the Stokes problem: A coercive finite element discretization[J].Computers & Mathematics with Applications,2025,188 :137-159,Elsevier Science
摘要：Using the <em>T</em>-coercivity theory as advocated in Chesnel and Ciarlet (2013) <a class="anchor anchor-primary" data-sd-ui-side-panel-opener="true" data-xocs-content-id="br0240" data-xocs-content-type="reference" href="#br0240" name="bbr0240"><span class="anchor-text-container"><span class="anchor-text">[25]</span></span></a>, we propose a new variational formulation of the Stokes problem which does not involve nonlocal operators. With this new formulation, unstable finite element pairs are stabilized. In addition, the numerical scheme is easy to implement, and a better approximation of the velocity and the pressure is observed numerically when the viscosity is small.
[74] Dean J. Maxam,Pranav Chengala Madhusoodana,Kumar K. Tamma .A new family of explicit generalized single-step single-stage integration methods for structural/multibody dynamics with improved stability for viscous damping[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2026,452, Part B ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This article details the analysis and synthesis of a novel family of explicit single-step integration methods for the second-order dynamics of structural and multibody systems. The family is derived from the Generalized Single-Step Single-Solve framework, pertaining to the class of linear multistep methods. The new explicit methods achieve second-order accuracy with optimal starting error, controllable numerical dissipation, and an option for explicit or implicit treatment of damping; the latter yields a stability limit which scales optimally with modal damping ratio, unlike prior methods with only incidental gains. The new family is compared with existing explicit methods on the basis of numerical accuracy and stability. Its superior performance for linear and nonlinear systems is demonstrated by numerical examples.
[75] Leïla Salomon,Pierre-Michel Guilcher .Fully higher-order coupling of finite element and level set methods for two-phase flow with a new explicit projection method[J].Computers & Fluids,2024,275 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This work presents the development of a higher-order finite element method for modeling unsteady, incompressible and inviscid two-phase flows using the level set method. A new explicit projection method is introduced to solve the incompressible Euler equation, where the pressure and the velocity fields are solved separately. To implement high order temporal schemes, the Hodge decomposition in this projection method is not applied to the velocity but to its time derivative. A discontinuous Galerkin discretization is used to solve both the level set and the nonlinear advection terms present in the Euler equations, while a Galerkin discretization is used to solve the pressure Poisson equation. The present method is a fully high order numerical approach, both in space and temporal dimensions. Numerical results provided by several 2D benchmark test cases in naval hydrodynamics (i.e hydrostatic equilibrium, sloshing and dam break) validate the computational code, illustrating the power of the proposed method. Compared to the CFD codes based on low order VOF/finite-volume methods, the present approach demonstrates greater accuracy on coarse meshes, leading to reduced CPU time. © 2024 The Authors
[76] Huner, Umit,Irsel, Gurkan,Bekar, Umut ,等.A comprehensive case study to the implicit and explicit approach in finite element analysis[J].Advances in Science and Technology-Research Journal,2025,19 (2):407-417,LUBLIN UNIV TECHNOLOGY, POLAND
摘要：The primary aim of this study is to conduct a comprehensive comparative evaluation of implicit and explicit finite element solution methodologies employed in structural analysis. This research examines the characteristics and performance differences between these two approaches, using two diverse case studies as illustrative examples. The FEM solution was performed nonlinearly by defining the linear elastic and plasticity properties of the material. The first case study focuses on a three-point bending test of a beam subjected to a slow deformation rate, while the second case study examines the damage mechanics of a pressure vessel experiencing a high deformation rate. It was found that the implicit solution method operates under the premise that displacement is independent of time, allowing for a more stable analysis in certain scenarios. On the other hand, the explicit method inherently incorporates time as a variable, making displacement a function of time. Once a solid understanding of the system's response is established, transitioning to explicit methods for more dynamic scenarios can lead to a more comprehensive and effective resolution of complex engineering problems. By carefully selecting the appropriate analysis method based on the specific characteristics of the loading conditions and the nature of the forces involved, engineers can optimize their simulations and enhance the reliability of their results.
[77] Chen, Luying,Liang, Wei,Ban, Lu ,等.Study on the Multi-Condition Impact Failure Mechanism of Lithium Battery Packs Based on Explicit Dynamics[M],2026,Association for Computing Machinery, Inc
摘要：To address the safety risks of new energy vehicle power battery packs caused by mechanical impacts, this study focuses on the CATL 117Ah ternary lithium battery. Based on CATIA modeling and ANSYS/LS-DYNA simulation, a mechanical impact analysis was conducted by applying a 7g, 6ms half-sine shock wave to the battery pack in the X, Y, and Z directions according to the national standard (GB 38031-2020). Simulation results show that in the Z direction, the maximum displacement is 0.72249 mm and the maximum stress is 52.94 MPa;in the Y direction, the maximum displacement is 0.8289 mm and the maximum stress is 118.8 MPa;in the X direction, the maximum displacement is 0.76623 mm and the maximum stress is 44.377 MPa, with all indicators meeting the design standards. The performance of high-strength steel, carbon fiber composites, and the existing 6061-T6 aluminum alloy was also compared, verifying that aluminum alloy offers the optimal balance between weight, performance, and cost. The study completed the structural strength assessment of the battery pack, providing a reference for impact-resistant design optimization and contributing to the enhancement of new energy vehicle safety. © 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
[78] K. Tian,J. Zhi,V.B.C. Tan ,等.An explicit finite element discrete crack analysis of open hole tension failure in composites[J].Composite Structures,2024,345 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Developing efficient, robust methods for predicting the progressive failure of carbon fiber composites under tension is essential for optimal design, balancing weight reduction, damage tolerance, and service life. Implicit finite element (FE) methods struggle with the complex interplay of failure mechanisms, leading to a heavy reliance on costly, time-consuming experimental testing. This study introduces a novel explicit algorithm designed for laminate-level mesh models, capable of simulating cohesive cracks without predefined paths. Utilizing an explicit finite element software approach, our method effectively addresses convergence issues associated with the non-linear and unstable nature of composite failures during quasi-static loading. Contrasting with implicit FE method, this mesh-independent approach is both practical and numerically robust. The algorithm's performance, tested on carbon-fiber reinforced composites with varying ply configurations [45<sub>2</sub>/-45<sub>2</sub>]<sub>s</sub>, [45<sub>n</sub>/90<sub>n</sub>/-45<sub>n</sub>/0<sub>n</sub>]<sub>s</sub> and [45/90/-45/0]<sub>ns</sub> (n=1/2/4/8), demonstrates improved simulation accuracy and efficiency over implicit FE methods, aligning well with prior experimental and simulation data. This advancement offers a promising solution for accurately simulating and understanding the complex failure behavior of these composites. © 2024
[79] Zhibo Jia,Wei Fan,Ping Zhou ,等.Efficient explicit simulation for dynamics of spinning circular solar sails considering the orbit-attitude-vibration coupling effect[J].Aerospace Science and Technology,2026,174 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The spinning circular solar sail is highly attractive in space-exploring missions due to its low areal density and compact fold strategy. Its accurate modeling and real-time simulations can help effectively predict the dynamic behavior, thus assisting its on-orbit operation and control. This work achieves efficient explicit simulations for the dynamics of spinning circular solar sails considering the orbit-attitude-vibration coupling effect. To achieve this, a dynamical circular solar sail model optimized for explicit integrators is established, where the Föppl-von Kármán (FvK) plate theory, without considering high-frequency in-plane vibrations, is adopted to describe the nonlinear deformations. Particularly, both the out-of-plane deflection and in-plane stresses for geometric stiffness are modeled, and their nonlinear coupling is taken into account. To address the time-varying coupling effect among the orbit, attitude, and vibration, a non-inertial floating frame is introduced to separate their degrees of freedom, such that the multiscale challenge can be overcome. Furthermore, the local incremental rotation vector is then employed to get rid of singularities existing in large spatial rotations. Based on this, the explicit Lie group integrator is developed to efficiently solve the coupling dynamics of the solar sail. Numerical experiments are performed to verify the accuracy of the dynamic model and validate the high efficiency of the explicit simulations. This present work contributes to the explicit real-time simulation of spinning circular solar sails considering orbit-attitude-vibration coupling effects.
[80] Tontiwattanakul, Khemapat,Rattanadecho, Phadungsak,Chumchan, Chartchay .Design and Analysis of the Ladder Impact Attenuator Structure According to EN1789:2020 using Explicit Dynamics[J].Science and Technology Asia,2023,28 (2):112-124,Thammasat University
摘要：This paper presents a design of cost-effectiveness and testing equipment for a ladder impact attenuator. The design goal is to create the attenuator structure as a multi-step in crash testing facility such that acceleration pulse profile is generated in accordance with EN1789, which is an international standard for assessing crashworthiness and crash compatibility for ambulances. The preliminary design of the impact attenuator structure is that some appropriate values of spring stiffness of the impact attenuator were estimated analytically. The impact attenuator structure is placed in a transverse direction as a ladder and has a multi-layered tubular shape to obstruct and absorb impact energy. Explicit dynamics finite element method was used to verify and validate with experimental data, that the crash results are permanent flexural large deformations. The simulation result was validated by experimental data of acceleration pulse profile, it is found that good tendency. The experiments have shown that the structure of the ladder impact attenuator can stop the sled movement within the desired time and displacement. © 2023, Thammasat University. All rights reserved.
[81] Pikulinski, Maciej,Malczyk, Pawel,Rodriguez, Antonio J. ,等.Data-driven prediction of subsystem dynamics in the explicit co-simulation of multibody systems[J].Mechanics Based Design of Structures and Machines,2026,54 (1),TAYLOR & FRANCIS INC
摘要：Co-simulation is an effective way to predict the dynamics of complex engineering setups, in which the main system is divided into subsystems. Each subsystem is integrated by a particular solver, and the coordination of these simulation units is coordinated by means of the exchange of limited amounts of information at specific points in time. This enables the implementation of modular computing environments, but it often introduces numerical errors in the solution that deteriorate the quality of the results and may eventually lead to the instability of the integration. Implicit co-simulation schemes remove these errors by iterating over each step. In explicit co-simulation setups this is not possible and alternative solutions are necessary. This work presents a data-driven approach to predict subsystem dynamics in explicit co-simulation setups, aimed at mitigating the energy errors introduced by the discrete-time co-simulation interface. The proposed solution only uses information contained in the coupling variables exchanged between subsystems and does not need knowledge of their internal details. The method has been tested with nonlinear and multirate benchmark problems. Results confirmed the ability of the proposed solution to remove numerical errors caused by the coupling interface and improve the accuracy and stability of the co-simulation of the overall system dynamics.
[82] Ngondiep, Eric .An efficient two-step explicit/Crank-Nicolson with finite element approach for three-dimensional coupled Burgers' equations with source terms[J].Research Square,2026,Research Square
摘要：This paper constructs an efficient two-step explicit/Crank-Nicolson technique combined with finite element method to simulate a three-dimensional coupled Burgers equations with source terms, subject to appropriate initial and boundary conditions. The space derivatives are approximated using the finite element formulation whereas a combination of an efficient explicit scheme and Crank-Nicolson approach is employed to interpolate the time derivative. The developed computational technique efficiently treats the time derivative term, ensuring its stability across small time steps. Both stability and convergence order of the new algorithm are numerically analyzed using the L∞(0, T;L2)-norm. The computational results suggest that the proposed two-step explicit/Crank-Nicolson approach is temporal second-order accurate and spatial third-order convergent. Four numerical examples are carried out to show the applicability and the efficiency of the new strategy. © 2026, CC BY.
[83] Zhu, Zhenyang,Liu, Yi .Explicit temperature field reconstruction algorithm for concrete based on finite element method[J].Smart Structures and Systems,2025,35 (3):131-140,TECHNO-PRESS
摘要：Currently, the digital construction of temperature fields based on existing data (temperature field reconstruction) primarily relies on "interpolation methods" and "thermal parameter inversion methods." Although continuous advancements have been made in these approaches, the accuracy of digitally reconstructed temperature fields still requires further improvement. This paper proposes a novel methodology that establishes a finite element method-based temperature field computation framework, incorporating automated real-time corrections using measured temperature data during the calculation process, thereby achieving precise numerical reconstruction of temperature fields. Additionally, a water-cooling pipe calculation method is presented that simultaneously satisfies three critical requirements: simplified mesh discretization, accurate computation of water temperature along the flow path, and precise grid-based calculation of temperature fields surrounding cooling pipes. By employing this method, accurate temperature field reconstruction can be achieved using limited temperature measurement points without requiring thermal parameter inversion, while the inversion accuracy improves progressively with increased measurement data. This methodology lays the foundation for automated temperature field reconstruction technology based on measurement point data.
[84] Urkullu, Gorka,Coria, Ibai,Fernandez De Bustos, Igor ,等.A Novel Second-Order Explicit Integration Method for Nonlinear Ordinary Differential Equations in Dynamics[J].Mathematics,2026,14 (6),MDPI
摘要：This paper introduces a new explicit integration method for second-order ordinary differential equations (ODEs) commonly encountered in engineering applications. Traditionally, these problems are solved either by reformulating them as first-order systems to apply one-step methods such as Runge-Kutta schemes, or by using direct second-order approaches widely adopted in linear dynamics, including the generalized-alpha, central difference, and Newmark methods. The proposed method is derived from a Taylor series expansion truncated at the third derivative, resulting in a fully explicit algorithm that requires only one function evaluation per time step. Similar to Newmark's formulation, it includes adjustable parameters that allow the user to balance accuracy and stability. For a specific parameter choice, the method exhibits convergence and stability properties comparable to those of the central difference scheme. An important advantage is that it remains explicit even when nonlinearities depend on first-derivative terms. The paper presents a theoretical analysis covering stability, local truncation error, spectral properties, numerical damping, and period elongation. The method is validated through four test cases from multibody dynamics, including linear and nonlinear problems. Results demonstrate that the Explicit Integration Grade 3 (EIG-3) method achieves accuracy comparable to existing explicit second-order integrators while significantly reducing computational cost, particularly in nonlinear applications.
[85] Chen, Chunyu,Chen, Long,Huang, Xuehai .EXPLICIT PLANAR FINITE ELEMENT ELASTICITY COMPLEXES AND C1 ELEMENTS ON BARYCENTRIC REFINEMENTS[J].arXiv,2026,arXiv
摘要：The exact-sequence structure behind the Arnold–Douglas–Gupta family of higher-order mixed finite elements for plane elasticity on barycentric refinements is made explicit. On each macro triangle, the symmetric stress space is obtained by enriching polynomial stresses with three locally supported functions. We derive closed-form formulas for these enrichments and identify explicit Airy potentials that generate them. This leads to a concrete Hsieh–Clough–Tocher type C1 potential space whose Airy image is exactly the Arnold–Douglas–Gupta stress space. By enforcing single-valued degrees of freedom, we obtain global spaces and a fully explicit finite element elasticity complex on simply connected domains. As a consequence, we construct a new family of C1 finite elements on barycentric refinements, including quadratic, cubic, quartic, and higher-order elements. Copyright © 2026, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[86] Carra, Federico,Coladonato, Giuditta,Piccini, Audrey ,等.Computational Tools in EN-MME: Implicit and Explicit Finite-Element Simulations[J].arXiv,2026,arXiv
摘要：This paper recalls the principles of the finite-element methods (FEM) theory and declines its application in the EN-MME group, for the numerical modelling and study of particle accelerator equipment. Implicit and explicit methods are compared, and practical examples of their use are given. Copyright © 2026, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[87] Pere A. Martorell,Santiago Badia .High order unfitted finite element discretizations for explicit boundary representations[J].Journal of Computational Physics,2024,511 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：When modeling scientific and industrial problems, geometries are typically modeled by explicit boundary representations obtained from computer-aided design software. Unfitted (also known as embedded or immersed) finite element methods offer a significant advantage in dealing with complex geometries, eliminating the need for generating unstructured body-fitted meshes. However, current unfitted finite elements on nonlinear geometries are restricted to implicit (possibly high-order) level set geometries. In this work, we introduce a novel automatic computational pipeline to approximate solutions of partial differential equations on domains defined by explicit nonlinear boundary representations. For the geometrical discretization, we propose a novel algorithm to generate quadratures for the bulk and surface integration on nonlinear polytopes required to compute all the terms in unfitted finite element methods. The algorithm relies on a nonlinear triangulation of the boundary, a kd-tree refinement of the surface cells that simplify the nonlinear intersections of surface and background cells to simple cases that are diffeomorphically equivalent to linear intersections, robust polynomial root-finding algorithms and surface parameterization techniques. We prove the correctness of the proposed algorithm. We have successfully applied this algorithm to simulate partial differential equations with unfitted finite elements on nonlinear domains described by computer-aided design models, demonstrating the robustness of the geometric algorithm and showing high-order accuracy of the overall method.
[88] Jeon, Yeong Hwan,Kim, Nam Hoon,Cheon, Dae Han ,等.Study on Prediction of Failure Behavior of Composite Pressure Vessel Using Explicit Finite Element Analysis[J].Journal of the Korean Society for Railway,2024,27 (9):750-762,Korean Society for Railway
摘要：In this study, using explicit finite element analysis, we predicted the failure behavior and mode of Type-Ill composite pressure vessels manufactured by filament winding method. The finite element model was created considering the composite lamination pattern of composite pressure vessels and variations in winding angle and thickness of dome part. Material testing was conducted to determine the mechanical properties of the composite material used in the pressure vessel. To verify the reliability of the analysis results, a hydraulic test of the composite pressure vessel was performed to evaluate the burst pressure, strain, and failure mode. Explicit element analysis of the composite pressure vessel was conducted using LS-Dyna, and Chang-Chang failure criterion was applied to predict failure mode of composite pressure vessel. Comparisons of analysis and test results confirmed a 2.41% difference in burst pressure and similar failure behavior and failure modes. © 2024 The Korean Society for Railway. All lights reserved.
[89] Wang, Heng,Wang, Zhongqiu,Li, Shangyuan ,等.An explicit high-order scheme coupling event detection and boundary protection for non-smooth dynamics[J].Nonlinear Dynamics,2026,114 (6):457-457,SPRINGER
摘要：Non-smooth systems pose a substantial challenge for achieving efficient and accurate long-term dynamic simulations. The field is characterized by a persistent trade-off between the limited accuracy of explicit methods and the computational complexity of implicit schemes. This paper introduces a novel explicit framework that synergistically integrates high-order accuracy, event handling, and energy conservation to address this challenge. Its core innovation is treating event localization error as an independent control variable, using a bisection strategy to bound switching time precision. Furthermore, a one-shot Karush-Kuhn-Tucker projection within the explicit integration simultaneously enforces constraints on position, velocity, and energy, achieving effective boundary protection and precise regulation within a purely explicit scheme. Long-term simulations demonstrate that the method stabilizes the global error at 6 & times;10-4, with event sequences and phase portraits showing excellent agreement with theoretical benchmarks. Consequently, this work enables explicit integration to achieve implicit-level accuracy and stability while retaining its inherent simplicity and parallelism, offering a new pathway for high-fidelity engineering simulations.
[90] 马峰,祝耐成 .基于显式动力学的螺旋式钢板仓镀锌板成型工艺参数优化[J].自动化应用,2025,66 (17):236-238,242
摘要：螺旋式钢板仓镀锌板成型载荷不均匀问题导致各工位受力差异显著,影响设备寿命和生产效率。为优化螺旋式钢板仓镀锌板成型工艺参数,提升镀锌板成型效能,提出了一种基于显式动力学的工艺参数优化方案。研究结果表明,通过显式动力学分析螺旋式钢板仓镀锌板的参数,发现第5成型段的能耗最高,同时第3次试验的不同成型段的密度都小于平均值。此外,以内能消耗最小为目标的参数优化能够有效降低能量增长率。由此可见,使用显式动力学对螺旋式钢板仓镀锌板进行工艺参数分析,能够实现对数据参数的模拟,同时正交试验能够有效优化参数。这对实现螺旋式钢板仓镀锌板成型工艺参数优化、降低成型过程中的耗能具有较好的指导意义。
[91] Stein K.F. Stoter,Sai C. Divi,E. Harald van Brummelen ,等.Critical time-step size analysis and mass scaling by ghost-penalty for immersogeometric explicit dynamics[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2023,412 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this article, we study the effect of small-cut elements on the critical time-step size in an immersogeometric context. We analyze different formulations for second-order (membrane) and fourth-order (shell-type) equations, and derive scaling relations between the critical time-step size and the cut-element size for various types of cuts. In particular, we focus on different approaches for the weak imposition of Dirichlet conditions: by penalty enforcement and with Nitsche's method. The stability requirement for Nitsche's method necessitates either a cut-size dependent penalty parameter, or an additional ghost-penalty stabilization term is necessary. Our findings show that both techniques suffer from cut-size dependent critical time-step sizes, but the addition of a ghost-penalty term to the mass matrix serves to mitigate this issue. We confirm that this form of `mass-scaling' does not adversely affect error and convergence characteristics for a transient membrane example, and has the potential to increase the critical time-step size by orders of magnitude. Finally, for a prototypical simulation of a Kirchhoff-Love shell, our stabilized Nitsche formulation reduces the solution error by well over an order of magnitude compared to a penalty formulation at equal time-step size.
[92] Hoffmann, Moritz,Tkachuk, Anton,Bischoff, Manfred ,等.FINITE ELEMENT TECHNOLOGY-BASED SELECTIVE MASS SCALING FOR EXPLICIT DYNAMIC ANALYSES OF THIN-WALLED STRUCTURES USING SOLID ELEMENTS[M].COMPDYN Proceedings,2023,National Technical University of Athens
摘要：We present a novel class of selective mass scaling (SMS) concepts in the context of explicit dynamic analyses of thin-walled structures using solid elements. The novel SMS schemes are based on the discrete strain gap (DSG) method [1], a method from the field of finite element technology (FET). Thus, they are denoted as DSGSMS schemes and they extend the initial work of [2] for shear deformable structural element formulations to the application in thin solid elements. We show that these novel DSGSMS concepts naturally preserve both translational and rotational inertia and possess high accuracy. Additionally, having non-linear problems including large rotations in mind, we show how efficient isotropic DSGSMS concepts can be developed such that the need for reassembly of scaled mass matrices is avoided. © 2023 COMPDYN Proceedings. All rights reserved
[93] Brodskyi, Yan,Gyrya, Vitaliy,Zlotnik, Anatoly .Simulation of Gas Mixture Dynamics in a Pipeline Network using Explicit Staggered-Grid Discretization[J].arXiv,2024,arXiv
摘要：We develop an explicit second order staggered finite difference discretization scheme for simulating the transport of highly heterogeneous gas mixtures through pipeline networks. This study is motivated by the proposed blending of hydrogen into natural gas pipelines to reduce end use carbon emissions while using existing pipeline systems throughout their planned lifetimes. Our computational method accommodates an arbitrary number of constituent gases with very different physical properties that may be injected into a network with significant spatiotemporal variation. In this setting, the gas flow physics are highly location- and time-dependent, so that local composition and nodal mixing must be accounted for. The resulting conservation laws are formulated in terms of pressure, partial densities and flows, and volumetric and mass fractions of the constituents. We include non-ideal equations of state that employ linear approximations of gas compressibility factors, so that the pressure dynamics propagate locally according to a variable wave speed that depends on mixture composition and density. We derive compatibility relationships for network edge domain boundary values that are significantly more complex than in the case of a homogeneous gas. The simulation method is evaluated on initial boundary value problems for a single pipe and a small network, is cross-validated with a lumped element simulation, and used to demonstrate a local monitoring and control policy for maintaining allowable concentration *** Codes 65M22, 35R02, 35Q93 © 2024, CC BY.
[94] Heinstein, Martin W.,Mello, Frank J.,Dohrmann, Clark R. .A Nodal-Based Stable Time Step Predictor for Transient Dynamics With Explicit Time Integration[M],2023,Development, Validation, and Application of Inelastic Methods for Structural Analysis and Design :225-229,American Society of Mechanical Engineers Digital Collection
摘要：A procedure for estimating the maximum stable time step for explicit finite element codes using central time difference is presented. The method is based on an estimate of maximum nodal stiffness and lumped nodal mass. The estimate of maximum nodal stiffness makes use of the finite element assembly operator and the maximum eigenvalue estimates of the finite elements being considered (in this case Flanagan’s mean quadrature hexahedron). The nodal-based stable time step calculated by this method is shown to be greater than or equal to an element based estimate alone.
[95] Aldias Bahatmaka,Achmad Yanuar Maulana,Mukhlis Amin ,等.Material performance analysis in frontal collision simulation of electric vehicle frames using explicit dynamic finite element analysis method[J].Results in Engineering,2025,28 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Crash testing, a crucial method for evaluating the strength of vehicle frame structures, plays a significant role in developing safer designs. This approach enables manufacturers to identify necessary design improvements by analyzing the performance of materials and structures. Material reliability enhances passenger safety and minimizes losses from structural failure under operational loads. While extensive research has been conducted on crash testing for passenger cars, limited studies have focused on comparing different materials for vehicle frames. Addressing this gap, this study compares two materials, carbon steel (ASTM <a class="anchor anchor-primary" href="http://***/Standards/A36" target="_blank"><span class="anchor-text-container"><span class="anchor-text">A36</span><svg aria-label="Opens in new window" class="icon icon-arrow-up-right-tiny arrow-external-link" focusable="false" height="20" viewbox="0 0 8 8"><path d="M1.12949 2.1072V1H7V6.85795H5.89111V2.90281L0.784057 8L0 7.21635L5.11902 2.1072H1.12949Z"></path></svg></span></a>) and high-strength aluminum alloy (Al-7075T6), to assess passenger safety during a collision. The study uses Finite Element Analysis (FEA) with ANSYS software to simulate crashes. The results indicate that ASTM <a class="anchor anchor-primary" href="http://***/Standards/A36" target="_blank"><span class="anchor-text-container"><span class="anchor-text">A36</span><svg aria-label="Opens in new window" class="icon icon-arrow-up-right-tiny arrow-external-link" focusable="false" height="20" viewbox="0 0 8 8"><path d="M1.12949 2.1072V1H7V6.85795H5.89111V2.90281L0.784057 8L0 7.21635L5.11902 2.1072H1.12949Z"></path></svg></span></a> exhibits higher stress values and lower safety factors, making it more vulnerable to permanent deformation and structural failure. In contrast, Al-7075T6 absorbs impact more effectively with a lower stress value and higher safety factor, making it the superior choice for electric vehicle frames
[96] Wiczenbach, T.,Pachocki, L.,Witkowski, W. ,等.On Implementation of a Finite Element Visco-Hyperelastic Material Model for Spinal Ligaments in Explicit Time Integration Method With an Infinite Impulse Response Filtering Technique[J].International Journal for Numerical Methods in Biomedical Engineering,2025,41 (7),WILEY
摘要：This study introduced the development and validation of a transversely isotropic, visco-hyperelastic constitutive model for human spinal ligaments, implemented using the Finite Element Method (FEM). The model, incorporating a Neo-Hookean strain energy function for the isotropic matrix and a polynomial function for the anisotropic fibers, enriched with viscous aspects, was employed within the Ansys LS-Dyna environment. Infinite Impulse Response filtering techniques were integrated into the numerical analysis as a novel approach, aimed at refining the stability and computational efficiency of the simulations under various strain rates (0.5s-1$$ 0.5\kern0.5em {\mathrm{s}}<^>{-1} $$, 20s-1$$ 20\kern0.5em {\mathrm{s}}<^>{-1} $$, 150s-1$$ 150\kern0.5em {\mathrm{s}}<^>{-1} $$, and 300s-1$$ 300\kern0.5em {\mathrm{s}}<^>{-1} $$). This feature significantly mitigated numerical instabilities that could appear when an explicit time integration scheme was used with high strain rate scenarios, critical in modeling vehicular collisions. Material parameters of ligament tissues were acquired through nonlinear least squares fitting to low and high strain experimental data. A comparative analysis of the FEM results against analytical solutions demonstrated the model's validity, with an excellent agreement across various statistical metrics. It was observed that the constitutive model could properly describe the visco-hyperelastic biomechanical behavior of the spine ligaments under high strain rates. The model could be applied to other soft tissues exhibiting visco-hyperelastic responses. Hence, the implementation of this constitutive law was successfully adopted for analyses considering various ligamentous structures.
[97] Giulio Ferri,Enzo Marino .Explicit high-order time and space accurate isogeometric collocation method for the dynamics of geometrically exact beams[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2026,449, Part A ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The efficient simulation of highly deformable mechanical systems under fast and complex dynamic loads necessitates the advancement of explicit computational methods. Traditional explicit schemes, which leverage diagonal mass matrices and mass-scaling techniques, have improved efficiency. However, for problems evolving on nonlinear manifolds, such as <span class="math"><math><mrow is="true"><mtext is="true">I</mtext><mspace is="true" width="-0.16em"></mspace><msup is="true"><mtext is="true">R</mtext><mn is="true">3</mn></msup><mo is="true" linebreak="goodbreak">×</mo><mrow is="true"><mi is="true" mathvariant="normal">SO</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">(</mo><mn is="true">3</mn><mo is="true">)</mo></mrow></mrow></math></span>, their accuracy remains limited to second-order in time. This limitation becomes even more critical when combined with high-order spatial techniques, such as Isogeometric Collocation (IGA-C), since it prevents the full exploitation of the spatial discretization potentialities. To address this gap, we propose a novel, fully explicit, high-order method for the dynamics of geometrically exact beams. The approach extends the Runge-Kutta-Munthe-Kaas (RKMK) scheme, originally developed for rigid body systems, to nonlinear partial differential equations governing deformable structures. The strong form of the problem is efficiently discretized in space using IGA-C, eliminating the need for element integration. Through various numerical tests, we demonstrate the ability of the proposed formulation to achieve high-order accuracy in time and space. Although the paper is focused on geometrically exact beams, the method is general and lays the ground for a promising extension to geometrically exact shells.
[98] Xin Su,Wing Tat Leung,Wenyuan Li ,等.Partially explicit generalized multiscale finite element methods for poroelasticity problem[J].Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics,2024,448 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：We develop a partially explicit time discretization based on the framework of constraint energy minimizing generalized multiscale finite element method (CEM-GMsFEM) for the problem of linear poroelasticity with high contrast. Firstly, dominant basis functions generated by the CEM-GMsFEM approach are used to capture important degrees of freedom and it is known to give contrast-independent convergence that scales with the mesh size. In typical situation, one has very few degrees of freedom in dominant basis functions. This part is treated implicitly. Secondly, we design and introduce an additional space in the complement space and these degrees are treated explicitly. We also investigate the CFL-type stability restriction for this problem, and the restriction for the time step is contrast independent. © 2024 Elsevier B.V.
[99] Mi Zhao,Qingpeng Ding,Shengtao Cao ,等.Large‐scale seismic soil–structure interaction analysis via efficient finite element modeling and multi‐GPU parallel explicit algorithm[J].Computer-Aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering,2024,39 (12):1886-1908,Elsevier Science
摘要：As urban population increases, integrated underground–aboveground complexes are being constructed at growing paces in major cities. The seismic analysis of such complexes is crucial for the safety and functionality in the threat of potential earthquake disasters. However, fine‐grained numerical modeling and analysis of such large and complex structures are still inefficient due to the consideration of the soil–structure interaction (SSI). To address this challenge, an efficient approach for numerical modeling of large‐scale seismic SSI analysis is presented in this paper to overcome the limitations of existing finite element analysis (FEA) software. Moreover, a multi‐graphic processing unit (GPU) parallel explicit algorithm is implemented for the nonlinear dynamic SSI problems to further increase the computational efficiency. A large underground–aboveground complex project in China is used as an example to demonstrate the capability of the integrated method. The accuracy and reliability of the multi‐GPU parallel explicit finite element algorithm for SSI analysis (GFEA‐SSIA) are verified through a comparative analysis of the linear‐elastic and nonlinear dynamic response of the building calculated by GFEA‐SSIA and common FEA software. Finally, the structural response and structural damage of the underground–aboveground complex are analyzed under multidirectional seismic motions, and the damage distributions of the structures are provided.
[100] Srivastav, Akhil Kumar,Steindorf, Vanessa,Guerrero, Bruno V. ,等.Bifurcation analysis of a two-infection transmission model with explicit vector dynamics[J].Journal of Mathematical Biology,2026,92 (2):26-26,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：Dengue fever is a major public health problem and has been extensively modeled. Understanding the role of explicit vector dynamics in vector-borne diseases such as dengue fever is essential for accurately capturing transmission patterns and improving control strategies. In this study, we extend the minimalistic two-infection host-host SIRSIR model by introducing the SIRSIR-UV model, which explicitly incorporates vector population dynamics. Our aim is to investigate how these explicit vector dynamics influence the behavior of the system. In doing so, we extend previous models that assumed implicit vector effects in addition to immunity and disease enhancement factors. Using tools from nonlinear dynamics and bifurcation theory, we derive analytical conditions for transcritical and tangent bifurcations, formalize backward bifurcation using center manifold theory, and compute Hopf and global homoclinic bifurcation curves. We also show that seasonal influences in the vector populations, mimicking the seasonality of mosquitoes, contribute to the occurrence of chaotic behavior in disease transmission, reflecting the current patterns observed in epidemiological data. We thoroughly characterize the dynamics of the SIRSIR-UV model and explore the implications of including explicit vector dynamics. Finally, we discuss our results with the previous SIRSIR model and conclude that the bifurcation structures observed in the SIRSIR-UV model are consistent with those of the minimalistic SIRSIR model. This unexpected result has important implications for the modeling of vector-borne diseases. It suggests that simplifying assumptions, such as the use of implicit vector dynamics, can effectively capture important aspects of disease transmission while reducing the complexity of the mathematical analysis.
[101] Zhang, Diwei,Peng, Xiaobo,Zhang, Dongdong .Simulating flow- induced fiber motion with finite element based explicit coupling method[J].Advances in Computational Design,2024,9 (3):229-252,TECHNO-PRESS
摘要：This paper presents a finite element based explicit coupling method. The derived method is proposed to solve a certain type of fluid-structure interaction problem, which is the motion of a single or flexible fiber with the motion induced by the low-Reynolds-number fluid. The particle motion is treated as a non-linear geometric dynamic problem. The Total-lagrangian finite element method is applied to describe and discretize the particle domain. The Bathe method is used to integrate the time domain. The Stokes equation is used as the governing equation of the fluid domain. The inertia term of the Stokes equation is ignored, and Reynolds number flow is assumed as zero. Since the time term is also canceled, we solve it as a quasi-static problem. Mixed finite element is to solve the fluid equation. An explicit strategy is implemented to couple the particle and the zero-Reynolds number flow. Simulations with the proposed method are presented, including the motion of single and double rigid particle immersed in the double Couette flow and the Poiseuille flow. Simulation of single flexible fiber immersed in a Poiseuille flow is also presented. Effect of particle's density, aspect ratio, and geometry are discussed.
[102] Junqi Zhang,Mi Zhao,Sascha Eisenträger ,等.An asynchronous parallel explicit solver based on scaled boundary finite element method using octree meshes[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2022,401, Part B ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Explicit time integration methods are an integral part of solving structural dynamics problems such as the propagation of elastic and acoustic waves, impact scenarios including crash tests and many more. One common limitation of this class of time integrators is, however, their conditional stability, meaning that highly distorted, small, or stiff finite elements typically govern the critical time step size. That is to say, even a small number of such elements will result in a significantly decrease of the feasible time step, which in turn drastically increases the computational costs of solving the semi-discrete equations of motion. This is especially true for non-uniform and unstructured meshes. Therefore, an asynchronous explicit solver in parallel is proposed in this article. The idea is to assign different time step sizes to different parts of the mesh, such that the overall computational effort is minimized. To improve the performance of the proposed solver, it is combined with a sophisticated octree meshing framework, where the balanced octrees are used, meaning that the ratio of the element sizes of adjacent elements cannot exceed a value of two. Thus, the critical time step of each element can be estimated straightforwardly. To avoid issues with hanging nodes, a special polyhedral element formulation, the scaled boundary finite element method, is employed. Since there are only a limited number of cell patterns in a balanced octree, the stiffness and mass matrices are pre-computed, significantly reducing the computational cost. Moreover, exploiting an element-by-element technique, the assembly of global stiffness matrices can be avoided. The main advantage of the described methodology is that the asynchronous explicit solver can be easily implemented in a high-performance computing environment. By means of several numerical examples, the accuracy and efficiency of the proposed method are demonstrated, as well as its versatility in handling complex engineering
[103] Beilina, Larisa,Ruas, Vitoriano .Explicit P1 Finite Element Solution of the Maxwell-Wave Equation Coupling Problem with Absorbing b. c.[J].Mathematics,2024,12 (7),MDPI
摘要：In this paper, we address the approximation of the coupling problem for the wave equation and Maxwell's equations of electromagnetism in the time domain in terms of electric field by means of a nodal linear finite element discretization in space, combined with a classical explicit finite difference scheme for time discretization. Our study applies to a particular case where the dielectric permittivity has a constant value outside a subdomain, whose closure does not intersect the boundary of the domain where the problem is defined. Inside this subdomain, Maxwell's equations hold. Outside this subdomain, the wave equation holds, which may correspond to Maxwell's equations with a constant permittivity under certain conditions. We consider as a model the case of first-order absorbing boundary conditions. First-order error estimates are proven in the sense of two norms involving first-order time and space derivatives under reasonable assumptions, among which lies a CFL condition for hyperbolic equations. The theoretical estimates are validated by numerical computations, which also show that the scheme is globally of the second order in the maximum norm in time and in the least-squares norm in space.
[104] Chen, Zhiming,Liu, Yong,Xiang, Xueshuang .A High Order Explicit Time Finite Element Method for the Acoustic Wave Equation with Discontinuous Coefficients[J].CSIAM Transactions on Applied Mathematics,2024,5 (4):735-787,GLOBAL SCIENCE PRESS
摘要：In this paper, we propose a novel high order unfitted finite element method on Cartesian meshes for solving the acoustic wave equation with discontinuous coefficients having complex interface geometry. The unfitted finite element method does not require any penalty to achieve optimal convergence. We also introduce a new explicit time discretization method for the ordinary differential equation (ODE) system resulting from the spatial discretization of the wave equation. The strong stability and optimal hp-version error estimates both in time and space are established. Numerical examples confirm our theoretical results.
[105] Duo Xu,Jian Zang,Xu-Yuan Song ,等.Deep learning-enabled explicit dynamics model parameters for composite structures[J].International Journal of Mechanical Sciences,2026,316 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Composite structures are prone to random micro-defects in manufacturing, resulting in inherent discrepancies between idealized theoretical dynamics models and real-world engineering scenarios. Purely data-driven dynamics prediction models typically exhibit a black boxes characteristic and lack physical interpretability. This paper proposes a deep learning-based dynamics equation correction network (DynCorrNet), which integrates theoretical numerical computations with neural networks to realize accurate identification and correction of theoretical dynamic models for composite structures. DynCorrNet first constructs nonlinear mapping among various structural parameters, frequencies, dynamics equation parameters, and dynamics responses via a multi-scale physics-constrained encoder. Subsequently, the parameter directed optimization mechanism is used to match experimental responses by optimizing only the dynamics-equation parameters, thus obtaining correction stiffness, damping, and nonlinear coefficients in an interpretable form. Finally, the corrected system response is obtained through numerical solution. Furthermore, this paper systematically compares multiple deep learning models for dynamics equation correction and assesses the generalization capability of DynCorrNet. The results indicate that compared with baseline models, DynCorrNet can accurately identify dynamics parameters (such as stiffness, damping, and nonlinear term coefficients) and correct the dynamics equations, achieving the lowest values in all four-error metrics. Moreover, DynCorrNet enables explicit dynamic modelling across distinct temperature conditions, structural configurations and manufacturing processes and delivers mechanism interpretations of the influence mechanisms of temperature and nonlinearity, thus verifying the generalization and interpretability capabilities of the proposed DynCorrNet. The dynamics parameters corrected by DynCorrNet not only compensate for deficiencies of theoretical
[106] Qingguang Guan,Gillian Queisser .Modeling calcium dynamics in neurons with endoplasmic reticulum: Existence, uniqueness and an implicit–explicit finite element scheme[J].Communications in Nonlinear Science and Numerical Simulation,2022,109 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Like many other biological processes, calcium dynamics in neurons containing an endoplasmic reticulum are governed by diffusion-reaction equations on interface-separated domains. Interface conditions are typically described by systems of ordinary differential equations that provide fluxes across the interfaces. Using the calcium model as an example of this class of ODE-flux boundary interface problems, we prove the existence, uniqueness and boundedness of the solution by applying comparison theorem, fundamental solution of the parabolic operator and a strategy used in Picard's existence theorem. Then we propose and analyze an efficient implicit-explicit finite element scheme which is implicit for the parabolic operator and explicit for the nonlinear terms. We show that the stability does not depend on the spatial mesh size. Also the optimal convergence rate in $H^1$ norm is obtained. Numerical experiments illustrate the theoretical results.
[107] Ngondiep, Eric .A strong second-order two-stage explicit/implicit technique with spectral orthogonal basis Galerkin finite element method for two-dimensional Gray-Scott model[J].arXiv,2026,arXiv
摘要：This paper proposes a strong second-order two-step explicit/implicit technique with spectral orthogonal basis Galerkin finite element method for solving a two-dimensional Gray-Scott model subject to appropriate initial and boundary conditions. The constructed approach discretizes at the first stage utilizing a second-order explicit method while a second-order implicit scheme is employed at the second phase. The space derivatives are approximated with the Galerkin finite element formulation combined with a spectral orthogonal basis. With this combination, the errors increased at the first stage are balanced by the errors decreased at the second phase so that the stability is maintained. Furthermore, the use of the spectral orthogonal basis minimizes the space errors. Thus, the new computational approach calculates efficiently numerical solutions and preserves a strong stability and high-order accuracy. The theoretical studies indicate that the proposed strategy is unconditionally stable, temporal second-order accurate and spatial qth-order convergent using the L∞(0, T;[L∞(Ω)]2)-norm, where q is an integer greater than or equal 2. Some numerical examples are performed to confirm the theory and to demonstrate the efficiency of the developed *** Codes 65M12, 65M15, 65M60, 65M70 © 2026, CC BY-SA.
[108] Yanping Chen,Liu Yu,Changhui Yao .An implicit–explicit relaxation extrapolated Runge–Kutta and energy-preserving finite element method for Klein–Gordon–Schrödinger equations[J].Communications in Nonlinear Science and Numerical Simulation,2024,135 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：An implicit–explicit (IMEX) relaxation extrapolated Runge–Kutta (RERK) and energy-preserving finite element method is designed for Klein–Gordon–Schrödinger (KGS) equations with periodic boundary conditions. First, the RERK method is employed to the discretization in time, which can keep the unconditionally stable and energy conservation after selecting the appropriate relaxation parameters γ<sub>n</sub>. An IMEX time-marching discretization is constructed so that only a system of linear equations needs to be solved at any time step. Next, the finite element method is utilized to the discretization in space. By the temporal–spatial splitting technique, optimal error estimates in the L<sup>2</sup>-norm and H<sup>1</sup>-norm are obtained with the convergent order O(τ<sup>s</sup>+h<sup>k+1</sup>) and O(τ<sup>s</sup>+h<sup>k</sup>), without any time stepsize restrictions. At last, some numerical examples are presented to demonstrate the theoretical results. © 2024 Elsevier B.V.
[109] Kumar, Vivek,Sankrityayan, Rohit,Dubey, Devendra K. ,等.Comparative Analysis of Blast-Loading Response of UHMWPE and Aramid Composites Using Explicit Dynamics Approach[M].Lecture Notes in Mechanical Engineering,2024,Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH
摘要：Ballistic composites are the most popular material in the defense industry due to their high specific strength and stiffness. This work aims to evaluate the mechanical behavior of ballistic grade composites under blast-loading scenarios using hydrocode implemented in LS-Dyna. Ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) and aramid composites are studied for various scaled distances under blast loading. Layered equivalent modeling is used to model the ballistic composites to get a realistic response. The blast response of UHMWPE composites has been computed in terms of central point displacement. The experimental data from the literature are used to validate the results of the finite element simulation. Further study has been carried out for the blast loading on the Kevlar/Epoxy. A comparative analysis of the blast response of UHMWPE and Kevlar/Epoxy composites under various blast-loading scenarios and standoff distances has been conducted. A detailed study has been performed on back face deformation and energy absorption of aramid and UHMWPE composites. Results indicate that UHMWPE composites performed better in most circumstances in terms of back face deformation and energy absorption. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2024.
[110] Jia, Xichun,Jiang, Xuebing,Huang, Jun ,等.Slope Stability Analysis Based on the Explicit Smoothed Particle Finite Element Method[J].Sustainability,2024,16 (2),MDPI
摘要：A landslide is a common natural disaster that causes environmental damage, casualties and economic losses, which seriously affects the sustainable development of society. In geomechanics, it is one of the largest deformation problems. Herein, the GPU-accelerated explicit smoothed particle finite element method (eSPFEM) for large deformation analysis in geomechanics was developed on the CUDA platform based on high-performance computing using a self-designed eSPFEM program code. The eSPFEM combines the strain smoothing nodal integration techniques found in the particle finite element method (PFEM) framework, which allows for the use of low-order triangular elements without volume locking and avoids frequent information transfer and mapping errors between Gaussian points and particles in PFEM. A numerical simulation of slope instability using the eSPFEM and based on a strength reduction technique was conducted using various examples, including a cohesive homogeneous slope, a non-cohesive homogeneous slope, a non-homogeneous slope and a slope with a thin soft band. The calculation results show that the eSPFEM can be applied to slope stability analysis under different working conditions, simulating the entire process of slope instability initiation, sliding and reaccumulation, and obtaining reliable FOS values. A numerical simulation was conducted to analyse a landslide that occurred in the Zhangjiazhuang tunnel on the Lanzhou-Xinjiang high-speed railway line on 18 January 2016. A natural unsaturated soil slope, a soil slope with a high moisture content and a soil slope with a high moisture content subjected to an earthquake were analysed. The findings of this study are in good agreement with the actual slope failure conditions. The primary triggers identified for the landslide were heavy rainfall and earthquakes. The verification results indicate that the eSPFEM can effectively simulate an actual landslide case, showcasing high accuracy and applicability in simulating t
[111] Ruibo, Su .Explicit Consistency Error Estimate for Finite Element Solutions of the Poisson Equation on Convex Domains[J].arXiv,2025,arXiv
摘要：We derive explicit a priori consistency error estimates for a standard finite element discretization of the Poisson equation on convex domains, where the domain is approximated by an internal convex polyhedron. The obtained explicit estimates depend only on global geometric parameters and are applicable to general convex domains and arbitrary families of simplicial meshes. © 2025, CC BY-SA.
[112] Zhou, Ping,Ren, Hui,Fan, Wei ,等.Efficient explicit integration for dynamics of inextensible ANCF beams with large deformations[J].Nonlinear Dynamics,2025,113 (19):26033-26048,SPRINGER
摘要：Explicit integration in flexible multibody dynamics is highly attractive for real-time simulation but poses significant efficiency challenges. The bending and axial straining dynamics of slender structural components, such as beams and cables, operate on different time scales. As a result, axial straining-usually the higher-frequency one, though often of minor interest-imposes strict time step limitations for algorithmic stability in explicit integration schemes. This work achieves efficient explicit integration for inextensible flexible beams undergoing large deformations. The key is to develop a dynamic model optimized for explicit integrators by reducing the stiffness of the problem. To this end, an absolute nodal coordinate formulation for inextensible beams is proposed, where the elastic potential energy is derived from the direct multiplication of the first and second derivatives of the position vector with respect to the arc-length coordinate. This formulation results in equations of motion with moderate stiffness, making it well-suited for explicit schemes. Inextensibility is rigorously enforced through algebraic constraints on slope vector lengths, applied either at discrete points or via a fixed-length constraint on the entire span of the beam. A constraint stabilization technique is employed to transform the resulting system of differential-algebraic equations into a set of ordinary differential equations, ensuring numerical stability. The main advantage of this method is its ability to accommodate large time steps, significantly improving computational efficiency. This capability makes explicit simulation schemes more practical and contributes to enabling real-time simulation of mechanical systems with flexible beams or cables.
[113] Krysl, Petr .Explicit dynamics of shells with a flat-facet triangular finite element[J].International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering,2022,123 (19):4545-4561,WILEY
摘要：The use of a flat-facet finite element with three nodes and six degrees of freedom per node for modeling of linear wave-propagation events is discussed. The triangular shell finite element was presented in a preceding publication. The main novelty of the current approach is the treatment of the drilling rotations that decouples the drilling degree of freedoms on the global level, and hence makes it possible to eliminate negative effects of these degrees of freedom on the explicit time-stepping algorithms employed to compute the dynamic response, such as deterioration in accuracy or artificially reduced time step. The element is shown to be robust for wave propagation simulations, and its performance is illustrated with examples including guided-wave scenarios.
[114] Yang, Luyu,Jin, Chengkai,Zhao, Xunhua .Hybrid explicit-droplet/implicit solvation model to accelerate constant-potential molecular dynamics simulations[J].The Journal of Chemical Physics,2025,163 (22),AIP Publishing
摘要：Using hybrid solvation model has become an important way to simulate the dynamics of electrochemical solid-liquid interfaces under realistic solvation and potential. However, since it typically relies on fully covering explicit solvent layers, it suffers from high computational cost and the dissolution of solvent molecules into the implicit solvent. To address these challenges, we present a hybrid explicit-droplet/implicit solvation model implemented based on VASPsol++, which enables efficient constant-potential molecular dynamics simulations around local reactive sites. This model employs an algorithm to exclude implicit solvent within the droplet and a velocity-reflection algorithm that prevents explicit solvent molecules from dissolving into the implicit solvent. It features both radius- and density-constant implementations and integrates a continuous cavity. Validated with established water-layer models, the droplet approach reliably replicates key interfacial properties, such as electron-count fluctuations and free-energy barriers from enhanced sampling calculations, in exemplar systems including Co-N-C motifs and MoS2 edges. Notably, this model accelerates barrier-calculation speed by 2-4 times, depending on slab size and specific settings, while providing reliable results. This study offers a new tool through which simulating the electrochemical interface using constant-potential molecular dynamics is significantly accelerated and more broadly accessible.
[115] Christoph Hollweck,Lukas Leidinger,Stefan Hartmann ,等.An analysis of the critical time step size for explicit dynamics using trimmed B-splines, LR-splines, and THB-splines[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2026,450 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Isogeometric analysis (IGA) combined with explicit dynamics is increasingly used in academia and has already been successfully applied in industrial simulations, including crash and sheet-metal forming. Since explicit schemes are only conditionally stable, accurate estimation of the critical time step is essential for both stability and efficiency. Adaptive mesh refinement is widely used to balance accuracy and computational cost. In IGA, THB- and LR-splines break the tensor-product structure of standard B-splines and enable local refinement, but their effect on the critical time step under trimming has not been systematically studied - a key requirement for reliable time step estimation.
[116] Vala, Jiří,Jarošová, Petra .On Computational Stability of Explicit Schemes in Nonlinear Engineering Dynamics[M].AIP Conference Proceedings,2023,2849 (1),American Institute of Physics Inc.
摘要：Physical analysis of problems of engineering dynamics leads typically to hyperbolic systems of partial differential equations of evolution of 2nd order with some nonlinear terms, supplied with Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions together with some interface ones and with Cauchy initial conditions. Their numerical treatment needs coupling the finite element (or similar) method with the method of discretization in time. The preference of distributed and parallel computations for large problems, e. g. of multiple contacts of moving deformable bodies, stimulates the analysis of convergence and stability properties of explicit integration schemes, as simple, effective and robust as possible. This paper demonstrates such research direction, significant for practical calculations, on the conditional stability of a model simple explicit algorithm, motivated by the central difference method, implemented ad hoc e. g. in the LS-DYNA software package. © 2023 American Institute of Physics Inc.. All rights reserved.
[117] Jin Tan,Chaohui Liang,Qiuwei Wu ,等.Optimal scheduling of integrated electricity and heat system with explicit data-driven model of thermal dynamics[J].International Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems,2025,171 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：District heating system can provide substantial flexibility for electric power systems by utilizing the huge thermal storage potential in pipeline networks. However, the thermal dynamics of pipeline networks is complicated, which is challenging to model with high computational efficiency and accuracy. Therefore, this paper proposes a novel optimal operation model for integrated electricity and heat systems with explicit data-driven model of thermal dynamics, which improves both solution accuracy and computational efficiency. First, a neural-network surrogate with rectified linear unit activation functions is proposed to model the complicated thermal dynamics of pipelines. Then, the nonlinear neural network is converted into a set of explicit mixed-integer linear constraints through the big-M method, which can then be embedded into the optimal operation of integrated electricity and heat systems directly. Compared to the widely-used partial differential equation models, the proposed model based on neural network greatly reduces the decision variables while guaranteeing accuracy. Finally, an optimal operation model with the formulated explicit data-driven thermal dynamics is developed for the integrated electricity and heat system to exploit the flexibility from thermal pipelines. Numerical results demonstrate that compared with existing partial differential equation models, the computational efficiency of the proposed neural network model for thermal dynamics is improved by 95% with satisfying accuracy. The effectiveness of proposed thermal dynamics model in virtual energy storage to promote renewable energy consumption is also verified.
[118] Larousse, Paul,Dureisseix, David,Gravouil, Anthony ,等.A thermodynamic motivated RCCM damage interface model in an explicit transient dynamics framework[J].Computational Mechanics,2025,75 (1):33-49,SPRINGER
摘要：A framework to solve fast dynamic problems involving a non-smooth interface behavior with contact and decohesion is under concern. In previous works, unilateral contact and impact have been studied in explicit dynamics but no damage nor cohesion were involved. Combining a contact problem and a thermodynamically motivated damage model within the so-called CD-Lagrange explicit dynamics scheme is the aim of this work. To do so, RCCM macroscopic model of adhesion with damage of the interface is studied. The thermodynamic motivation of the model and the use of a symplectic explicit scheme creates a framework based on good energy balance. In this work, illustrations and feasibility are shown for small displacement problems.
[119] 常海啸,韩超,梁友涛 ,等.基于显式动力学的控制臂球销脱出力仿真分析[J].计算机辅助工程,2022,31 (1):20-23
摘要：为防止汽车使用过程中控制臂球销脱出,基于显式动力学有限元法,对某车型控制臂的球销脱出力进行仿真计算,利用Abaqus/Explicit求解器得到球销的脱出力和控制臂的等效塑性应变。与控制臂球销拉脱试验结果进行对比,验证该仿真分析方法的有效性。结合球销的实际结构,分析控制臂球碗端口壁厚、球碗端口下方圆角半径和球碗端口半径等3个参数对球销脱出力的影响,结果表明:增大球碗端口的壁厚、增大球碗端口下方圆角半径和减小球碗端口半径,均可以增大球销的脱出力。
[120] Zhi-Ping Zeng,Fu-Shan Liu,Wei-Dong Wang .Three-dimensional train–track–bridge coupled dynamics model based on the explicit finite element method[J].Soil Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering,2022,153 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, a train-track-bridge coupled dynamics modeling and coupling method was proposed. The coupled dynamic system was modeled separately with multiple subsystems by finite element method and the three-dimensional nonlinear wheel-rail contact relationship was used to account for non-linearity. Using explicit numerical methods and coupling the subsystems by the load term on the right end of the dynamic equations, repetitive iteration in the dynamic response solution process was avoided. Thus, a simplified the solution of nonlinear dynamic models can be achieved in limited time. In order to meet the requirement of diagonalization of the mass matrix in the algorithm, the modal superposition method was adopted. In the solution method proposed in this study, only a set of mass, damping, and stiffness matrices of the subsystem structure need to be established for solution instead of building the total matrix of the coupled dynamic system. Thus, greatly reduce the dynamic system matrix dimension for periodic train-track-bridge coupled dynamic systems. The train-track-bridge coupled dynamics model proposed in this paper is suitable to model various track and bridge structures, the wheel-rail contact relationship used is closer to reality and has more accuracy in describing the force state between wheel and rail. Besides, the unit size, number of modalities and numerical integration step size required in the calculation of each subsystem have been determined based on numerical experiments. Using the established dynamics model, the effects of the commonly used bound and separation ballastless track structures on the train operation safety was analyzed employing single-sample and multi-samples analysis. The calculation results demonstrated that the separation model is preferable for the prediction of train operation safety. © 2021 Elsevier Ltd
[121] Al Zareef, Diana,El Hajj, Ahmad,Ibrahim, Hassan ,等.Convergence of a semi-explicit scheme for a one dimensional periodic nonlocal eikonal equation modeling dislocation dynamics[J].欧洲工业与应用数学：数学建模与数值分析,2025,59 (6):2957-2990,EDP SCIENCES S A
摘要：In this paper, we derive a periodic model from a one dimensional nonlocal eikonal equation set on the full space modeling dislocation dynamics. Thanks to a gradient entropy estimate, we show that this periodic model converges toward the initial one when the period goes to infinity. Moreover, we design a semi-explicit numerical scheme for the periodic model that we introduce. We show the well-posedness of the scheme and a discrete gradient entropy inequality. We also prove the convergence of the scheme and we present some numerical experiments.
[122] Eisenträger, Sascha,Radtke, Lars,Garhuom, Wadhah ,等.An Eigenvalue Stabilization Technique for Immersed Boundary Finite Element Methods in Explicit Dynamics[J].SSRN,2023,SSRN
摘要：The application of immersed boundary methods in static analyses is often impeded by poorly cut elements (small cut elements problem), leading to ill-conditioned linear systems of equations and stability problems. While these concerns may not be paramount in explicit dynamics, a substantial reduction in the critical time step size based on the smallest volume fraction $\chi$ of a cut element is observed. This reduction can be so drastic that it renders explicit time integration schemes impractical. To tackle this challenge, we propose the use of a dedicated eigenvalue stabilization (EVS) technique.\\The EVS technique serves a dual purpose. Beyond merely improving the condition number of system matrices, it plays a pivotal role in extending the critical time increment, effectively broadening the stability region in explicit dynamics. As a result, our approach enables robust and efficient analyses of high-frequency transient problems using immersed boundary methods. A key advantage of the stabilization method lies in the fact that only element-level operations are required.\\This is accomplished by computing all eigenvalues of the element matrices and subsequently introducing a stabilization term that mitigates the adverse effects of cutting. Notably, the stabilization of the mass matrix $\mathbf{M}_\mathrm{c}$ of cut elements - especially for high polynomial orders $p$ of the shape functions - leads to a significant raise in the critical time step size $\Delta t_\mathrm{cr}$.\\To demonstrate the efficacy of our technique, we present two specifically selected dynamic benchmark examples related to wave propagation analysis. Therefore, an explicit time integration scheme is employed to leverage the increase in the critical time step size. © 2023, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[123] Jie Zhou,Linyun Xu,Aiqi Zhang ,等.Finite element explicit dynamics simulation of motion and shedding of jujube fruits under forced vibration[J].Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,2022,198 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Current fruit motion response simulations during vibration harvesting mainly adopt linear theoretical calculation methods for the fruit motion patterns analysis, which cannot reflect some nonlinear vibration features of fruits under real conditions and cannot simulate the fruit-branch vibration separation process. In this paper, the finite element (FEM) explicit dynamic simulations technique was combined with experimental and modal analysis to investigate and simulate the dynamic responses of the Jun jujube fruit-stem system under various forced vibration conditions. According to the obtained results, the greater the fruit vibration amplitude, the greater the maximum stress on the stem during vibration, while the maximum stress position depends on the vibration direction. The fruit-stem system resonance can be triggered at a specific mode depending on the vibration method and mode shape. Due to its nonlinearity, the fruit-stem system has primary resonance with an excitation frequency close to the natural frequency and a sub-harmonic resonance with an excitation frequency close to an integer multiple of the natural frequency. The stress failures can be employed as criteria for material failures at the connection between the branch and the fruit. Accordingly, the fruit shedding process from the branch can be accurately simulated during vibratory harvesting, and the fruit shedding movement can be effectively predicted under complex excitation conditions. © 2022 Elsevier B.V.
[124] Bo Fu,Fu-Tai Zhang,Qing-Kai Zhang ,等.A new dual-explicit model-based integration method with flexible and controllable numerical dissipation for linear and nonlinear structural dynamics[J].Structures,2025,77 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The dual-explicit model-based integration schemes are unconditionally stable and explicit for both velocity and displacement. This study develops a new dual-explicit model-based integration method with flexible and controllable numerical dissipation for linear and nonlinear dynamics. The new integration method adopts straightforward explicit formulations of velocity and displacement, and does not require a supplementary weighted equation of motion. By matching the eigenvalues of the amplification matrix of the recently proposed <span class="math"><math><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">ρ</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">∞</mi></mrow></msub></math></span>-Bathe integration scheme, the integration parameters of the new integration scheme are derived. The numerical properties including the stability, convergence rate, period elongation, amplitude decay, and overshooting of the new method are comprehensively analyzed. The results indicate that the new integration scheme maintains second-order accuracy and unconditional stability for linear and nonlinear stiffness softening systems. Compared with several dissipative model-based integration schemes, the proposed method has larger numerical dissipations, which are flexibly controlled by two coefficients. Finally, four numerical examples are adopted to verify the capacity of the new integration method in the numerical dissipation of suppressing the spurious high-frequency response and the computational efficiency of solving linear and nonlinear structural dynamic problems.
[125] Swati, Raees Fida,Amjad, Muhammad AsfandYar,Talha, Muhammad ,等.Crashworthiness study of UCAV's main landing gear using explicit dynamics[J].International Journal of Crashworthiness,2022,27 (6):1843-1859,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：In the aircraft industry, the ultimate goal in any component's design is to minimize its weight, maximize its durability, and increasing its life while keeping its overall life cycle costs low. As technology is progressing, UCAVs are gaining more and more prominence as jet powered UCAVs are already taking to skies presenting a myriad of challenges. This is especially true in the case of Landing gears as greater crashworthiness is required in high-speed high payload UCAVs. As jet powered UCAVs have a higher touchdown velocity and thus a higher chance of failure. In this research, a category of unmanned combat aerial vehicles was picked. In that category, a number of reference unmanned combat aerial vehicles were selected to extract the required parameters and dimensions of their main landing gears from literature review and analysis. The main landing gear was then modeled in CAD. Simultaneously loading conditions were defined and loads were determined. The equivalent von mises and maximum principal stresses were obtained from finite element analysis for multiple materials using the finite element package ANSYS. These results were then in turn used to calculate the factor of safety. Furthermore, an impact analysis was carried out in this crashworthiness study using Explicit Dynamics in LS DYNA for the same material. The stress formulations and deformations in impact were highly non-linear and more realistic and accurate than in static structural. The results were then validated.
[126] Yang, Cheng,Zhang, Dayi,Zhang, Qicheng ,等.Explicit finite element modeling method and the impact energy propagating characteristics of the rotor with blade off[J].Propulsion and Energy,2025,1 (1):1-26,Springer Nature Singapore
摘要：The explicit finite element (FE) simulation method of the flexible rotor with fan blade off (FBO) is developed using LS-DYNA. Three important aspects of the model processing have been discussed, including the setting of blade off and rotational speed, simulation method of bearings, and solution time reduction technologies. An inner cross method is developed to simulate the elastic bearings, which can effectively avoid the problems of the existing simulation methods. Based on the established explicit FE model, the dynamic response, stress distribution characteristics, and impact energy propagation of the shaft are studied after the FBO fault occurs. The numerical results show that the impact energy of the missing blade does not propagate as a wave in the rotating shaft, which is different from the non-rotating beam. The gyroscopic effect can inhibit the typical wave propagation characteristics of impact energy. The bending moment of the rotating shaft is determined by both the gyroscopic moment and the unbalanced load, while the unbalanced load is the dominant factor. Finally, it is analyzed that key factors such as rotational speed, unbalance, and the constraints of fusing structure and fan casing have different effects on the dynamic response of the rotor. The energy concentration phenomenon and the amplification effect of reaction force appear in the rotor with blade off.
[127] Tomoki Ohsawa .Explicit symplectic integrators for massive point vortex dynamics in binary mixture of Bose–Einstein condensates[J].Journal of Computational Physics,2026,558 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：We construct explicit integrators of arbitrary even orders of accuracy for massive point vortex dynamics in binary mixture of Bose–Einstein condensates proposed by Richaud et al. The integrators are symplectic and preserve the angular momentum of the system exactly. Our main focus is the small-mass regime in which the minor component of the binary mixture comprises a very small fraction of the total mass. The solution behaviors in this regime change significantly depending on the initial momenta: they are highly oscillatory unless the momenta satisfy certain conditions. The standard Runge–Kutta method performs very poorly in preserving the Hamiltonian showing a significant drift in the long run, especially for highly oscillatory solutions. On the other hand, our integrators nearly preserve the Hamiltonian without drifts. We also give an estimate of the error in the Hamiltonian by finding an asymptotic expansion of the modified Hamiltonian for our second-order integrator.
[128] Lorenz Grünewald,Laurens van Dam,Sebastian Mai .An Excitation Strategy for the Initial Condition Generation for Surface Hopping Trajectories Using Electron-Only Dynamics Including Explicit Laser Pulses[J].Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation,2025,21 (24):12741-12754,American Chemical Society
摘要：Nonadiabatic dynamics simulations, e.g., via trajectory surface hopping, are nowadays used regularly to describe various photoinduced phenomena in molecules. For a number of reasons, in the setup of such simulations, the actual photoexcitation process is often described by rather crude and approximate excitation schemes (e.g., vertical excitation by an implicit delta pulse), and more attention is directed to the ensuing dynamics simulations. However, several studies have implied the importance of properly considering the spatial, temporal, and spectral details of the exciting laser pulse. Here, we suggest the “electron-only explicit” (“EOE”) excitation scheme for setting up trajectory surface hopping initial conditions based on an explicit laser pulse at little computational cost. The scheme is based on solving the time-dependent electronic Schrödinger equation including the explicit influence of a laser pulse within the frozen-nuclei approximation. The obtained time-dependent, coherently excited, electronic populations are then used to stochastically select the initial electronic states in a postprocessing step. Here, the electronic populations are renormalized such that one excites a reasonable fraction of the initial condition even when operating well within the weak-field regime. The new scheme is made freely available as part of the SHARC 4 dynamics package. We illustrate and validate the new excitation scheme by means of several simulations of sodium iodide and 6-cyanobenzquinuclidine excited with laser pulses of different energy and pulse duration, comparing to quantum dynamics results.
[129] Kalyan Manna,Malay Banerjee,Sergei Petrovskii .Exploring the structural sensitivity in some spatially-explicit models of ecological dynamics[J].Chaos, Solitons & Fractals,2026,204 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Mathematical models are frequently used to infer predictions about population dynamics in real ecosystems. However, parametrization of intra- and interspecific interactions is usually approximate, as the amount and quality of ecological information is never sufficient to make a ‘precise’ decision about the mathematical function(s) to use. The question therefore arises as to how sensitive the model properties can be with regard to the choice of the function - the problem known as “structural sensitivity”. In this article, we explore the structural sensitivity of a predator–prey model with additive Allee effect in prey growth and density-dependent death rate for predator. We test the sensitivity of both temporal (non-spatial) and spatiotemporal (spatially-explicit) models using three qualitatively similar but numerically different parametrizations of the predator functional response, such as Holling type II (fraction-linear), Ivlev (exponential) and hyperbolic (trigonometric) functions. Using an array of the analytical and numerical tools, we show that both the temporal and spatiotemporal dynamics can be qualitatively different for the three chosen parametrizations. Also, our study clearly reveals that any hierarchical ranking of these parametrizations according to their destabilizing potential is not possible.
[130] Kaushik, Aman,Rabiei, Afsaneh .Explicit Finite Element Model of Composite Metal Foam's Mechanical Response During Quasi-static and Dynamic Compression[M].TMS 2025 154TH ANNUAL MEETING & EXHIBITION SUPPLEMENTAL PROCEEDINGS,2025,SPRINGER INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING AG
摘要：Novel materials like composite metal foams (CMF) can provide high strength-to-density ratio and enhanced energy absorption capabilities to mitigate puncture and bolster structural integrity of HAZMAT tank cars during potential derailments. This work summarizes quasi-static numerical model of multi-phase steel-steel CMF, incorporating interactions between embedded hollowmetal spheres with entrapped fluid (air) within a metallic matrix, and provides a glimpse of the extension of this approach to dynamic impact scenarios in future works. The metallic components and the air trapped within spheres are modeled using solid Lagrangian elements and smooth particle hydrodynamics (SPH), respectively and the fluid-solid interactions are implemented using contact definitions. The numerical model for quasi-static compression reports an average percentage error of 2.2% for plateau region and a percentage error of 5.9% for densification strain when compared with experimentally obtained data.
[131] 张平,王伟,曾鑫 ,等.混凝土损伤塑性板静力全曲线显式有限元跟踪[J].绍兴文理学院学报,2023,43 (10):73-80
摘要：较之传统的隐式算法,显式算法在求解损伤塑性混凝土(CDP)构件的有限元静力问题方面具有一定优势.采用显式算法对4块不同抗弯纵筋配筋率的有限元CDP板进行静力仿真.仿真给出了板准静力状态下的荷载-位移静力全曲线、能量时程曲线、混凝土受拉损伤等值线图和抗弯纵筋应力等值线图.结果表明:板极限承载力的显式算法模拟结果与理论计算结果的偏差较小;配筋率与极限承载力成正相关关系;板底裂缝的萌发与发展会造成板动能释放,该释放使得荷载-时间曲线产生噪音,噪音程度与配筋率总体上成负相关关系.
[132] Kwon, Sun-Beom,Prakash, Arun .Scalar Auxiliary Variable (SAV) Stabilization of Implicit-Explicit (IMEX) Time Integration Schemes for Non-Linear Structural Dynamics[J].International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering,2025,126 (2),WILEY
摘要：Implicit-explicit (IMEX) time integration schemes are well suited for non-linear structural dynamics because of their low computational cost and high accuracy. However, the stability of IMEX schemes cannot be guaranteed for general non-linear problems. In this article, we present a scalar auxiliary variable (SAV) stabilization of high-order IMEX time integration schemes that leads to unconditional stability. The proposed IMEX-BDFk-SAV schemes treat linear terms implicitly using kth-order backward difference formulas (BDFk) and non-linear terms explicitly. This eliminates the need for iterations in non-linear problems and leads to low computational costs. Truncation error analysis of the proposed IMEX-BDFk-SAV schemes confirms that up to kth-order accuracy can be achieved and this is verified through a series of convergence tests. Unlike existing SAV schemes for first-order ordinary differential equations (ODEs), we introduce a novel SAV for the proposed schemes that allows direct solution of the second-order ODEs without transforming them into a system of first-order ODEs. Finally, we demonstrate the performance of the proposed schemes by solving several non-linear problems in structural dynamics and show that the proposed schemes can achieve high accuracy at a low computational cost while maintaining unconditional stability.
[133] Ichimura, Tsuyoshi,Fujita, Kohei,Hori, Muneo ,等.Low-Ordered Orthogonal Voxel Finite Element with INT8 Tensor Cores for GPU-Based Explicit Elastic Wave Propagation Analysis[M].COMPUTATIONAL SCIENCE, ICCS 2024, PT III,2024,14834 :257-271,SPRINGER INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING AG
摘要：Faster explicit elastic wavefield simulations are required for large and complex three-dimensional media using a structured finite element method. Such wavefield simulations are suitable for GPUs, which have exhibited improved computational performance in recent years, and the use of GPUs is expected to speed up such simulations. However, available computational performance on GPUs is typically not fully exploited, and the conventional method involves some numerical dispersion. Thus, in this paper, we propose an explicit structured-mesh wavefield simulation method that uses INT8 Tensor Cores and reduces numerical dispersion to speed up computation on GPUs. The proposed method was implemented for GPUs, and its performance was evaluated in a simulation experiment of a real-world problem. The results demonstrate that the proposed method is 17.0 times faster than the conventional method.
[134] Pratik Baisane,Nilesh Sakle .Evaluation of crashworthiness parameters for foam-filled concentric tubes using explicit dynamics simulation[J].Materials Today: Proceedings,2023,72, Part 3 :1224-1230,Elsevier Science
摘要：Global uncertainties have increased the crude oil prices historically and the depletion of fossil fuels are key reasons to innovate to improve fuel economy. Lightweight automotive structures are one of the prominent solutions which improve fuel economy and meet the crashworthiness requirement. Literature shows researchers are working on optimizing energy absorption and reducing the weight of the automotive structure by combining shape, size, and different categories of materials with different configurations of concentric tubes. Along with energy absorption, it is important to reduce the weight of vehicles by using lightweight materials grade. Promising lightweight materials such as foams and composites help to improve the crumple zone's crashworthiness by reducing weight and improving energy absorption. Foam improves crush stability and deformation pattern of the structure during impact loading. This research paper discusses a finite element analysis method using Ansys Explicit solver and its result validation with an experimental UTM compression test with some boundary conditions. This validated CAE model is used to predict the result of a quasi-static test, foam-filled tubes with various shapes and materials such as AA6063-T4 and Polyurethane (PU) foam and wall thicknesses (i.e., 1.5 mm and 1.7 mm) were evaluated in this paper. The quasi-static test's experimental and simulation findings were more than 80 % correlated. From CAE analysis of various combination foam-filled hexagonal structure with a 1.7 mm wall thickness showed better specific energy absorption (SEA): 10.69 KJ/Kg, lower maximum crush force (F<sub>max</sub>): 51.01 KN, and highest crush force efficiency (CFE): 67 % as compared to other structures. A velocity scaling method was used to improve the computational efficiency of the solver by increasing the time increment. Velocity scaling has a negligible effect on the accuracy of results which meet the result of quasi-static compression test performed
[135] Sahu, Sibani,Moharana, Maheswata,Das, Anuradha ,等.Explicit water-ligand docking, drug-likeness and molecular dynamics simulation analysis to predict the potency of Boerhavia diffusa plant extract against mutant wilms tumor-1 protein responsible for type 4 nephrotic syndrome[J].Journal of Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics,2026,44 (3):1250-1271,TAYLOR & FRANCIS INC
摘要：Thestructure and function of a protein are closely connected. Changes in a protein structure can impact on its function. Nephrotic syndrome type 4 (NPHS4) is an uncommon genetic condition caused by mutations in the WT1 gene, which codes for the wilms tumor-1 protein. Several studies have discovered that patients with nephrotic syndromes are resistant to steroid therapy and are likely to develop end-stage renal failure. The use of phytochemicals-based therapeutics is in demand due to their high potential and low toxicity. Based on this context, we employed the Autodock raccoon to screen 67 distinct potent phytochemicals from the Boerhavia diffusa (***) plant against the wild type and mutant model at position C388R (cysteine is replaced with arginine at position 388) of the C-terminal DNA binding domain of the wilms tumor-1 protein. Out of 67 active compounds, only 10 compounds (lunamarine, kaempferol, boeravinone B, boeravinone E, boeravinone A, boeravinone F, boeravinone J, boeravinone P, boerhaavic acid and 4',7-dihydroxy-3'-methylflavone) were screened based on drug-likeness properties and binding energy for explicit water ligand docking against wild and mutant model of C-terminal DNA binding domain of wilms tumor-1 protein. Consequently, the hydrated form of boeravinone F and boeravinone A demonstrated the highest binding energy against the protein mutant model described above, the binding energies were -9.56 and -8.96 Kcal/mol, respectively. Followed by explicit water ligand docking the microscopic properties of wild type, mutant, mutant-boeravinone F complex, and mutant-boeravinone A complex systems were evaluated using molecular dynamics simulation steps with 100 ns of trajectory. The findings indicate that, due to mutation the mutant model system had decreasing stability and decreasing compactness nature. However, boeravinone A effectively monitored the mutant system's stability and improved compactness nature after binding with the mutant model. Boerav
[136] Donapati Kowsik Sainath Reddy,Gollapalli Vasanth Kumar,Thippana Chethan Krishna Vasanth ,等.Crashworthiness Assessment of Automotive Car Body Materials using Explicit Finite Element Analysis[M],2026,Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
摘要：Crashworthiness assessment is a critical aspect of structural design in the automobile industry as it directly influences occupant safety during the collisions. This paper presents an explicit dynamic finite element analysis (FEA) of a car body, conducted in ANSYS, of a complete automotive car, to determine the effects of the material selection on car crash behavior. A basic model of a 3-D car body model was developed and subjected to frontal impact, side impact, and rear impact conditions at velocities of $60 \text{km} / \mathrm{h}$ and $90 \text{km} / \mathrm{h}$ in both rigid wall and vehicle-to-vehicle collisions. The structural performance of four candidate materials namely Carbon Fiber Reinforced Plastic (CFRP), Glass Fiber Reinforced Plastic (GFRP), stainless steel, and aluminum alloy were evaluated to facilitate a consistent comparative analysis. The crash response was assessed on total deformation, equivalent von Mises stress, and equivalent strain recorded at very critical time steps of maximum structural deformation. The findings indicate that deformation behaviour, stress distribution, and strain response vary significantly across the materials. CFRP demonstrated superior deformation control and low strain, indicating high structural stiffness and weight - safety ratio. Conversely, aluminum alloy provided balanced energy absorption through controlled plastic deformation. While stainless steel offered high load-bearing capacity, it resulted in increased structural weight. In contrast, GFRP exhibited excessive deformation and strain, suggesting it is unsuitable for primary crash-resistance structures. The results emphasize the significance of material choice in achieving an optimal balance between lightweight vehicle design and safety performance.
[137] Liu, Kai,Wang, Bin .The Construction and Optimal Error Analysis of Explicit Energy-Preserving Methods for Charged Particle Dynamics Under Strong Magnetic Field[J].Journal of Scientific Computing,2025,106 (1):20-20,SPRINGER/PLENUM PUBLISHERS
摘要：In this study, combining the idea of splitting and relaxation, a first-order Lie-Trotter splitting scheme and a second-order Strang splitting scheme are constructed for the charged-particle dynamics in the presence of a strong magnetic field. Both the schemes are explicit and energy-preserving. For the maximal ordering scaling regime, a uniform (with respect to the magnetic field strength) and optimal error bound for both the position and the velocity component parallel to the magnetic field are established for the proposed first-order Lie-Trotter splitting scheme. Numerical experiments are carried out to demonstrate the optimal error and energy conservation properties of the proposed splitting schemes.
[138] Levin, Gregor,Groom, Geoff,Svenningsen, Stig Roar .Assessing spatially explicit long-term landscape dynamics based on automated production of land category layers from Danish late nineteenth-century topographic maps in comparison with contemporary maps[J].Environmental Monitoring and Assessment,2025,197 (2):1-21,SPRINGER
摘要：Historical topographical maps contain valuable, spatially and thematically detailed information about past landscapes. Yet, for analyses of landscape dynamics through geographical information systems, it is necessary to "unlock" this information via map processing. For two study areas in northern and central Jutland, Denmark, we apply object-based image analysis, vector GIS, colour image segmentation, and machine learning processes to produce machine-readable layers for the land use and land cover categories forest, wetland, heath, dune sand, and water bodies from topographic maps from the late nineteenth century. Obtained overall accuracy was 92.3%. A comparison with a contemporary map revealed spatially explicit landscape dynamics dominated by transitions from heath and wetland to agriculture and forest and from heath and dune sand to forest. However, dune sand was also characterised by more complex transitions to heath and dry grassland, which can be related to active prevention of sand drift but that can also be biased by different categorisations of dune sand between the historical and contemporary data. We conclude that automated production of machine-readable layers of land use and land cover categories from historical topographical maps offers a resource-efficient alternative to manual vectorisation and is particularly useful for spatially explicit assessments of long-term landscape dynamics. Our results also underline that an understanding of mapped categories in both historical and contemporary maps is critical to the interpretation of landscape dynamics.
[139] Stein K.F. Stoter,Thi-Hoa Nguyen,René R. Hiemstra ,等.Variationally consistent mass scaling for explicit time-integration schemes of lower- and higher-order finite element methods[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2022,399 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, we propose a variationally consistent technique for decreasing the maximum eigenfrequencies of structural dynamics related finite element formulations. Our approach is based on adding a symmetric positive-definite term to the mass matrix that follows from the integral of the traction jump across element boundaries. The added term is weighted by a small factor, for which we derive a suitable, and simple, element-local parameter choice. For linear problems, we show that our mass-scaling method produces no adverse effects in terms of spatial accuracy and orders of convergence. We illustrate these properties in one, two and three spatial dimension, for quadrilateral elements and triangular elements, and for up to fourth order polynomials basis functions. To extend the method to non-linear problems, we introduce a linear approximation and show that a sizeable increase in critical time-step size can be achieved while only causing minor (even beneficial) influences on the dynamic response.
[140] Jesse Lietzén,Juho Sormunen,Sami Pajunen ,等.Simulation of impact force generated by an ISO tapping machine on a wooden slab using explicit dynamics analysis[J].Engineering Structures,2022,270 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Application of simulation tools to compute impact sound insulation properties of wooden floors has raised interests in recent decades. To achieve accurate results from the prediction models, information from force excitation generated by impact sound sources is required. The purpose of our study was to present a validated procedure to determine the non-linear impact force excitation generated by an ISO tapping machine. The method comprised use of finite element method (FEM) and explicit time integration to compute impact force pulse generated by a hammer of the tapping machine. With a post-processing procedure, the force pulses can be converted to present point forces describing the continuous operation of the tapping machine on the floor. To demonstrate the applicability of the method, the finite element model was applied to imitate an experimental situation on a cross-laminated timber (CLT) slab. The model validation showed that the computational model closely predicts the force pulse generated on the CLT slab. Findings from a sensitivity analysis revealed that local properties of the slab were the most important to the simulated impact force pulse. The findings of the analysis are helpful for those developing simulation tools to compute the impact force generated by the tapping machine on wooden floors. © 2022 The Authors
[141] Sjard Mathis Rosenbusch,Daniel Balzani,Jörg F. Unger .Regularization of softening plasticity models for explicit dynamics using a gradient-enhanced modified Johnson–Holmquist model[J].International Journal of Impact Engineering,2025,198 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The behavior of concrete under high strain rates is often described by plasticity models with softening, which is modeled by a reduction of the yield surface as a function of the local equivalent plastic strain. Many of these models are local and therefore produce mesh-dependent results. In this contribution, the gradient-enhancement of such models is investigated to mitigate the mesh-dependency.
[142] Huang, Yunqing,Li, Jichun,Liu, Xin .Developing and analyzing an explicit unconditionally stable finite element scheme for an equivalent Berenger's PML model[J].欧洲工业与应用数学：数学建模与数值分析,2023,57 (2):621-644,EDP SCIENCES S A
摘要：The original Berenger's perfectly matched layer (PML) was quite effective in simulating wave propagation problem in unbounded domains. But its stability is very challenging to prove. Later, some equivalent PML models were developed by Becache and Joly [ESAIM: M2AN 36 (2002) 87-119] and their stabilities were established. Hence studying and developing efficicent numerical methods for solving those equivalent PML models are needed and interesting. Here we propose a novel explicit unconditionally stable finite element scheme to solve an equivalent Berenger's PML model. Both the stability and convergence analysis are proved for the proposed scheme. Numerical results justifying the theoretical analysis are presented. We also demonstrate the effectiveness of this PML in simulating wave propagation in the free space. To our best knowledge, this is the first explicit unconditionally stable finite element scheme developed for this PML model.
[143] Ngondiep, Eric .A strong two-stage explicit/implicit approach combined with mixed finite element methods for a three-dimensional nonlinear radiation-conduction model in anisotropic media[J].arXiv,2025,arXiv
摘要：This paper develops a strong computational approach to simulate a three-dimensional nonlinear radiation-conduction model in optically thick media, subject to suitable initial and boundary conditions. The space derivatives are approximated by the mixed finite element method (Pp/Pp−1), while the interpolation technique is employed in two stages to approximate the time derivative. The proposed strategy is so-called, a strong two-stage explicit/implicit computational technique combined with mixed finite element method. Specifically, the new algorithm should be observed as a predictor-corrector numerical scheme. Additionally, it efficiently treats the time derivative term and provides a necessary requirement on time step for stability. Under this time step limitation, the stability is deeply analyzed whereas the convergence order is numerically computed in the L2-norm. The theoretical results suggest that the developed approach is stable and temporal second-order accurate. Some numerical experiments are performed to confirm the theory, to establish that the constructed method is spatial fourth-order convergent and to demonstrate the practical applicability and computational efficiency of the numerical *** Codes 65M12, 65M06 © 2025, CC BY-SA.
[144] Liang, Yu-Jui,Gao, Zhenjia,Iarve, Endel, V .An Implementation of Regularized Extended Finite Element Method in Abaqus/Explicit[M],2022,AMER INST AERONAUTICS & ASTRONAUTICS
摘要：The main objective of the present effort is to enhance the Regularized eXtended Finite Element Method (Rx-FEM) framework in Abaqus by adding the capability of explicit dynamics analysis. In this work, the Rx-FEM has been implemented in Abaqus/Explicit for modeling fracture and damage in laminated composites. The Rx-FEM implementation in Abaqus/Explicit via user-defined subroutines allows insertion and propagation of mesh-independent matrix cracks (MIC) in any ply of a laminated composites without a priori knowledge of matrix crack location and orientation. A mixed-mode cohesive zone model (CZM) is applied for both intralaminar and interlaminar damage. The capabilities of the proposed implementation are demonstrated by modeling a two-dimensional laminated composites with stacking sequence [0(5)/90(3)](s) subjected to low-velocity line impact. The intra-ply damage mechanisms modeled by MIC technique in the middle 90 degrees layers and the inter-ply delamination in the 0 degrees/90 degrees interfaces are considered in the finite element model. The numerical predictions are in good agreement with the existing experiments in the literature. As a result, the implementation is able to capture the damage process of laminated composites under impact loading including the initiation and propagation of matrix cracks, and the crack-induced delamination at the intersections between matrix cracks and adjacent plies.
[145] Du, Yishan,Xia, Yi,Hua, Lingling ,等.Spatiotemporal dynamics of amygdala during implicit and explicit facial emotional recognition in major depressive disorder: An MEG study[J].Psychological Medicine,2025,55 :e318-e318,CAMBRIDGE UNIV PRESS
摘要：Background Major depressive disorder (MDD) patients exhibit a mood-congruent emotional processing bias within the amygdala toward negative facial stimuli at both unconscious and conscious levels. Therefore, our study aimed to investigate the temporal and spatial dynamics of amygdala along with its interactions with the whole brain during implicit and explicit conditions in *** Thirty MDD patients and 26 healthy controls (HCs) underwent magnetoencephalography (MEG) recordings and performed implicit and explicit emotional face recognition tasks with happy, sad, and neutral facial expressions. Using the amygdala as a seed region, time frequency representations (TFR) and functional connectivity (FC) were calculated. Pearson correlation analyses measured the relationship between TFR and FC values with clinical *** During implicit processing, MDD patients exhibited left amygdala activation in the gamma power (60-70 Hz) before 250 ms in response to sad facial stimuli compared to HCs. In the implicit mode, there were increased FC between the right amygdala and several brain regions in the occipitoparietal lobes, as well as higher FC between the left amygdala and putamen in MDD patients. Additionally, the right amygdala was positively correlated with the severity of depression and anxiety during implicit *** MDD patients had lateralized amygdala activation in response to sad facial expressions during unconscious emotional recognition of facial stimuli. Our study provided valuable insights into the spatiotemporal dynamics of facial emotional recognition associated with depressive and anxiety-related cognitive bias during implicit and explicit processing.
[146] Yuepeng Dong .Performance of explicit substepping integration scheme for complex constitutive models in finite element analysis[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2023,162 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Advanced constitutive models for soils are critical to achieve reliable results in geotechnical analyses, but their implementation in finite element programs should be accurate, efficient, and robust. This paper describes the algorithm used to integrate a complex elastoplastic constitutive model for clays, the MIT-E3, in the finite element framework, followed by extensive evaluations. The explicit substepping scheme with different order of accuracy is adopted in the integration due to its simplicity, and also because of complexities in the model formulation. Several important issues are highlighted in the integration to improve the model performance in the analysis, (i) rigorous update of the void ratio, (ii) efficient intersection with the bounding surface, (iii) consistent correction of the drifted stress to the bounding surface, and (iv) consistently linearized tangent operator in the explicit substepping scheme. The numerical integration is verified by reproducing the stress-strain behaviour in single element tests, and also by checking the error behaviour with the order of accuracy of the integration method. The accuracy and efficiency of different methods in the integration are evaluated in a rigorous and consistent manner, which has practical implications for choosing suitable methods and parameters in the analysis. Good convergence rate can be achieved using the proposed consistently linearized tangent operator. The substepping scheme with error control is shown to be stable in the challenging geotechnical problems, while the efficiency is affected by the strain increment size which is problem dependent. © 2023 The Author
[147] Yao Qian,Hui Zhu,Taoshuo Bai ,等.An investigation into rail corrugation evaluation based on fractal theory and explicit finite element method[J].Scientific Reports,2026,Nature Publishing Group
摘要：Rail corrugation poses a persistent challenge in railway engineering, aggravating rolling contact fatigue and adversely affecting passenger comfort. However, the existing standards for rail grinding are inadequate for evaluating corrugation across multiple scales, underscoring the need for new evaluation indices. In this paper, we assess the effects of various characteristics of rail corrugation on the wheel-rail system and establish the relationship between the dynamic indices of the wheel-rail system and the fractal dimension of rail corrugation. Additionally, we derive the limit value of the fractal dimension of rail grinding based on the limit values of the dynamic indices. These findings provide a practical grinding guideline: when the sampling interval is 1 mm and the fractal dimension exceeds 1.252, rail grinding should be scheduled to mitigate dynamic overloads and extend service life.
[148] Ichimura, Tsuyoshi,Fujita, Kohei,Hori, Muneo ,等.Low-Ordered Orthogonal Voxel Finite Element with INT8 Tensor Cores for GPU-Based Explicit Elastic Wave Propagation Analysis[M].Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics),2024,14834 LNCS :257-271,Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH
摘要：Faster explicit elastic wavefield simulations are required for large and complex three-dimensional media using a structured finite element method. Such wavefield simulations are suitable for GPUs, which have exhibited improved computational performance in recent years, and the use of GPUs is expected to speed up such simulations. However, available computational performance on GPUs is typically not fully exploited, and the conventional method involves some numerical dispersion. Thus, in this paper, we propose an explicit structured-mesh wavefield simulation method that uses INT8 Tensor Cores and reduces numerical dispersion to speed up computation on GPUs. The proposed method was implemented for GPUs, and its performance was evaluated in a simulation experiment of a real-world problem. The results demonstrate that the proposed method is 17.0 times faster than the conventional method. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2024.
[149] Chobdarian, Rezan,Yazdani, Azad,Dabbagh, Hooshang ,等.Reliability-based stochastic finite element using the explicit probability density function[J].Structural Engineering and Mechanics,2023,86 (3):349-359,TECHNO-PRESS
摘要：This paper presents a technique for determining the optimal number of elements in stochastic finite element analysis based on reliability analysis. Using the change -of -variable perturbation stochastic finite element approach, the probability density function of the dynamic responses of stochastic structures is explicitly determined. This method combines the perturbation stochastic finite element method with the change -of -variable technique into a united model. To further examine the relationships between the random fields, discretization of the random field parameters, such as the variance function and the scale of fluctuation, is also performed. Accordingly, the reliability index is calculated based on the explicit probability density function of responses with Gaussian or non -Gaussian random fields in any number of elements corresponding to the random field discretization. The numerical examples illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed method for a one-dimensional cantilever reinforced concrete column and a two-dimensional steel plate shear wall. The benefit of this method is that the probability density function of responses can be obtained explicitly without the use simulation techniques. Any type of random variable with any statistical distribution can be incorporated into the calculations, regardless of the restrictions imposed by the type of statistical distribution of random variables. Consequently, this method can be utilized as a suitable guideline for the efficient implementation of stochastic finite element analysis of structures, regardless of the statistical distribution of random variables.
[150] Patrick Staubach,Jan Machaček .Spatially mixed implicit–explicit schemes in hydro-mechanically coupled soil dynamics[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,176 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Mixed implicit–explicit (IMEX) schemes combine elements of both implicit and explicit time integration methods. This allows to efficiently handle boundary value problems with severe differences in stiffness, such as often encountered in soil dynamics. A spatially mixed IMEX scheme, in which different parts of the computational domain may be treated implicitly or explicitly depending on their behaviour, is discussed in this work. Domain decomposition by means of a mortar contact discretisation is used for this purpose and multiple systems of equations are solved. The merits of the scheme in solving problems of soil dynamics are demonstrated, for which the governing equations are extended to hydro-mechanical coupling.
[151] Vetle Espeseth,David Morin,Tore Børvik ,等.A gradient-based non-local GTN model: Explicit finite element simulation of ductile damage and fracture[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2023,289 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Non-local models have over the years been established as an effective approach to solve the pathological mesh dependency problem observed in finite element simulation of strain-softening materials. This paper presents the formulation, implementation, and application of a gradient-based non-local Gurson–Tvergaard–Needleman (GTN) model for explicit finite element analysis. The porosity is taken as the non-local variable where the increment in porosity is averaged over the volume using an implicit gradient model. The gradient model is implemented in ABAQUS/Explicit by utilising the coupled thermal–mechanical solver, which proves to be both a simple and computationally efficient approach. Due to the use of an explicit integration scheme, a transient term is introduced to the partial differential equation of the gradient formulation. The non-local GTN model is compared to the local counterpart for increasing mesh refinements using a plane strain shear band specimen, a plane strain tension specimen, and a plane strain compact tension specimen. The proposed approach can remedy the pathological mesh dependency problem. For the plane strain tension specimen, it is shown that the non-local GTN model will preserve the fracture mode (slant versus cup–cup fracture mode) when the mesh is refined. The non-local GTN model is also able to predict the same fracture mode as observed in ductile tearing experiments. However, non-local averaging can over-smooth the fields and exclude the slant fracture mode from occurring if the material length L<sub>c</sub> is too large. © 2023 The Author(s)
[152] Ketwaroo, Fabian R.,Matechou, Eleni,Silk, Matthew ,等.Modeling Disease Dynamics From Spatially Explicit Capture-Recapture Data[J].Environmetrics,2025,36 (1),WILEY
摘要：One of the main aims of wildlife disease ecology is to identify how disease dynamics vary in space and time and as a function of population density. However, monitoring spatiotemporal and density-dependent disease dynamics in the wild is challenging because the observation process is error-prone, which means that individuals, their disease status, and their spatial locations are unobservable, or only imperfectly observed. In this paper, we develop a novel spatially-explicit capture-recapture (SCR) model motivated by an SCR data set on European badgers (Meles meles), naturally infected with bovine tuberculosis (Mycobacterium bovis, TB). Our model accounts for the observation process of individuals as a function of their latent activity centers, and for their imperfectly observed disease status and its effect on demographic rates and behavior. This framework has the advantage of simultaneously modeling population demographics and disease dynamics within a spatial context. It can therefore generate estimates of critical parameters such as population size;local and global density by disease status and hence spatially-explicit disease prevalence;disease transmission probabilities as functions of local or global population density;and demographic rates as functions of disease status. Our findings suggest that infected badgers have lower survival probability but larger home range areas than uninfected badgers, and that the data do not provide strong evidence that density has a non-zero effect on disease transmission. We also present a simulation study, considering different scenarios of disease transmission within the population, and our findings highlight the importance of accounting for spatial variation in disease transmission and individual disease status when these affect demographic rates. Collectively these results show our new model enables a better understanding of how wildlife disease dynamics are linked to population demographics within a spatiotemporal context.
[153] Hyun-Young Nam,Minchul Yu,Gunwoo Noh .Explicit dynamics with the method of finite spheres using a modified direct inverse mass matrix[J].Computers & Structures,2024,295 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This work aims to enable explicit dynamics in the method of finite spheres (MFS). We propose a method to apply a direct inverse mass matrix with the modified local mass matrix for explicit dynamics in the MFS. We show that the performance of the proposed method depends on the proper selection of the modification parameters and set of enriched functions;hence, solution accuracy can be improved by choosing them optimally. Furthermore, we analyze the effects of time integration schemes when the MFS with the proposed method is used;the results show that the proposed method with the Noh-Bathe explicit method is remarkably accurate, and its performance is comparable to that of the widely used ρ<sub>∞</sub>-Bathe implicit method. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[154] Bhat, Asif Jeelani,Maji, V.B. .An Explicit Finite Element Approach to TBM Disc Cutter-Induced Rock Fragmentation Simulation[M].Lecture Notes in Civil Engineering,2024,483 :173-183,Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH
摘要：In rock tunnelling, tunnel boring machines (TBMs) are extensively used for mechanical rock cutting. A good understanding of the rock fragmentation process and subsequently TBM penetration rate could be very useful in the design and operation of TBMs with better scheduling of the project. The important parameters in the design of a TBM cutter head include the cutting forces, rock material characteristics and the cutter configuration. The main tools employed by TBMs for rock fragmentation are disc cutters. The rock cutting process can be characterized by two approaches, namely physical testing and numerical modelling. Although physical tests have proved to be reliable, they are uneconomical and time-consuming owing to the intrinsic heterogeneity in the rock material. Moreover, physical tests do not provide a detailed explanation of the initial rock fragmentation process. Numerical modelling, on the other hand, provides a detailed insight into all the phases of the rock fragmentation process. However, the numerical methods are mostly based on some assumptions and do not easily take into account random imperfections in rocks. The finite element approach, among the available numerical methods, can be used to analyze the distribution of temperature, stress, strain, and strain rate in the chip generation zone of the rock cutting process. Using explicit finite element algorithm LS-DYNA, a technique for modelling the fragmentation process during mechanical rock cutting is briefly discussed. FEM algorithm explicitly captures the dynamic interactions during TBM rock cutting and the nonlinear features of the rock material. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2024.
[155] Peyman Bayat,Pezhman Bayat .Scalable robust transactive management of hydrogen-battery virtual power plants under explicit degradation dynamics[J].International Journal of Hydrogen Energy,2026,223 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The integration of electrolyzer-based hydrogen production (EHP) and battery energy storage systems (BESS) into virtual power plants (VPPs) is crucial for renewable-rich grids but poses challenges in co-optimizing market participation, multi-entity coordination, and equipment degradation economics. Existing studies often overlook the strategic integration of energy pricing, decentralized trading, and the significant economic impacts of physical aging. This paper proposes a novel decentralized robust transactive energy management (DRTEM) framework for scalable coordination of multiple integrated hydrogen-battery VPPs (IHB-VPPs). The framework co-optimizes day-ahead trading, pricing, and internal scheduling while embedding explicit, high-fidelity degradation models for BESS and fuel cells, converting cycle and calendar aging into marginal degradation costs to ensure long-term economic sustainability. A consensus-based alternating direction method of multipliers (CB-ADMM) enables privacy-preserving decentralized coordination among IHB-VPPs, requiring only limited trading information exchange. To ensure computational tractability under uncertainty and nonlinear degradation dynamics, a Wasserstein metric-based ambiguity set is adopted for data-driven robust optimization, and a novel progressive hedging algorithm with augmented Lagrangian and scenario-wise decomposition (PHAL-SD) solver is introduced, significantly reducing master problem complexity. Case studies on a modified RBTS network demonstrate that the proposed DRTEM framework enhances system reliability, reduces energy not supplied by 36.51% compared to uncoordinated operation, and improves operational profitability by effectively internalizing degradation costs and enabling efficient inter-VPP energy transactions. The framework's adaptive penalty mechanism accelerates CB-ADMM convergence, while its two-layer iterative structure guarantees finite convergence under nonlinear constraints. Simulations confirm superio
[156] Beilina, Larisa,Ruas, Vitoriano .On the Maxwell-wave equation coupling problem and its explicit finite-element solution[J].Applications of Mathematics,2023,68 (1):75-98,SPRINGERNATURE
摘要：It is well known that in the case of constant dielectric permittivity and magnetic permeability, the electric field solving the Maxwell's equations is also a solution to the wave equation. The converse is also true under certain conditions. Here we study an intermediate situation in which the magnetic permeability is constant and a region with variable dielectric permittivity is surrounded by a region with a constant one, in which the unknown field satisfies the wave equation. In this case, such a field will be the solution of Maxwell's equation in the whole domain, as long as proper conditions are prescribed on its boundary. We show that an explicit finite-element scheme can be used to solve the resulting Maxwell-wave equation coupling problem in an inexpensive and reliable way. Optimal convergence in natural norms under reasonable assumptions holds for such a scheme, which is certified by numerical exemplification.
[157] Wenjie Wang,Zhiliang Gao .A dynamical remeshing-based explicit lumped mass method for damaged ship flooding dynamics[J].Ocean Engineering,2025,317 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：An explicit lumped mass method based on dynamical remeshing technique is developed to calculate the flooding dynamics of damaged ship. To calculate the motion of floodwater, which is modelled as a lumped mass, the algorithm involves dynamically splitting the volume mesh in the compartment into the water and air elements, contingent upon the amount of water and the inclination of water surface presenting at each time step. The water surface inclination is calculated explicitly through the projection operation of dynamic equilibrium equation of lumped mass. Moreover, the remeshing algorithm is used to update the face elements at the opening to improve the calculation accuracy of the water flow rate by the hydraulic model. The effectiveness of the present method is validated by simulating the transient and progressive flooding of a box-shaped barge with single and multiple compartments arrangement. The computed ship motion, water level in the compartment and movement of internal water are compared with the experimental counterparts. The benchmark results indicate that the proposed method can effectively and efficiently predict the flooding dynamics of damaged ship in calm water environment.
[158] Zonglin Li,Ju Chen,Qiang Tian ,等.Efficient explicit time integration algorithms for non-spherical granular dynamics on group S(3)[J].Computational Particle Mechanics,2025,12 (1):81-106,Elsevier Science
摘要：Discrete element method (DEM) is a powerful tool for the dynamic simulation of irregular non-spherical particle systems. The efficient integration of the rotational motions of numerous particles in DEM poses a big challenge. This paper presents six explicit time integration algorithms, comprising three first-order algorithms and three second-order algorithms, for the rotational motions of non-spherical particles based on the theory of unit quaternion group S(3). The proposed algorithms based on Cayley map do not contain any transcendental function and have high efficiency. The numerical examples underscore the superiority of the first-order symplectic Euler Cayley algorithm (SECay) and the second-order central difference Cayley algorithm (CDCay) in terms of both efficiency and accuracy. In the testing cases of granular systems, SECay and CDCay demonstrate approximately 80% reduction in computational time for the time integration part, compared to the improved predictor–corrector direct multiplication method (IPCDM). Therefore, SECay and CDCay emerge as promising tools for non-spherical DEM simulations.
[159] Zhang, Wei,Liu, Yihui,Li, Jinhui ,等.ESPFEM2D: A MATLAB 2D explicit smoothed particle finite element method code for geotechnical large deformation analysis[J].Computational Mechanics,2024,74 (2):467-484,SPRINGER
摘要：The Smoothed Particle Finite Element Method (SPFEM) has gained popularity as an effective numerical method for modelling geotechnical problems involving large deformations. To promote the research and application of SPFEM in geotechnical engineering, we present ESPFEM2D, an open-source two-dimensional SPFEM solver developed using MATLAB. ESPFEM2D discretizes the problem domain into computable particle clouds and generates the finite element mesh using Delaunay triangulation and the alpha\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} \usepackage{amsmath} \usepackage{wasysym} \usepackage{amsfonts} \usepackage{amssymb} \usepackage{amsbsy} \usepackage{mathrsfs} \usepackage{upgreek} \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} \begin{document}$$ \alpha $$\end{document}-shape technique to resolve mesh distortion issues. Additionally, it incorporates a nodal integration technique based on strain smoothing, effectively eliminating defects associated with the state variable mapping after remeshing. Furthermore, the solver adopts a simple yet robust approach to prevent the rank-deficiency problem due to under-integration by using only nodes as integration points. The Drucker-Prager model is adopted to describe the soil's constitutive behavior as a demonstration. Implemented in MATLAB, this open-source solver ensures easy accessibility and readability for researchers interested in utilizing SPFEM. ESPFEM2D can be easily extended and effectively coupled with other existing codes, enabling its application to simulate a wide range of large geomechanical deformation problems. Through rigorous validation using four numerical examples, namely the oscillation of an elastic cantilever beam, non-cohesive soil collapse, cohesive soil collapse, and slope stability analysis, the accuracy, effectiveness and stability of this open-source solver have been thoroughly confirmed.
[160] 王莹嵘,徐振梦,马大柱 .AdS5-Schwarzschild黑洞弦运动的显式辛算法构造及动力学研究[J].湖北民族大学学报（自然科学版）,2025,43 (4):574-579
摘要：针对低阶非保辛结构算法在模拟黑洞视界附近弦的动力学演化时极易产生假混沌现象的问题,以五维反德西特背景下的史瓦西(five-dimensional anti-de Sitter-Schwarzschild,AdS5-Schwarzschild)黑洞背景为例,提出构造高精度显式辛算法。将系统的哈密顿函数分解为5个可积的子部分,分别设计了2类四阶显式辛迭代格式。成功构造的显式辛算法不仅严格保持了系统的辛结构,而且有效抑制了低阶非保辛结构算法积累的长期截断误差,大大提高了精度和计算效率。基于显式辛算法提供的高精度且长期稳定的数值解,通过分析庞加莱截面和李雅普诺夫指数图,发现系统所有的稳定轨道均为有序运动,未出现混沌现象。数值实验与理论分析结果一致,说明显式辛算法能够准确地描述弦在强引力场中的长期动力学演化。该研究提供了在强引力天体系统中构造显式辛算法的新路径,具有重要的应用价值。
[161] Martin, Valerie A. A.,Kraft, Reuben H. H.,Hannah, Thomas H. H. ,等.An energy-based study of the embedded element method for explicit dynamics[J].Advanced Modeling and Simulation in Engineering Sciences,2022,9 (1):1-18,SPRINGERNATURE
摘要：The embedded finite element technique provides a unique approach for modeling of fiber-reinforced composites. Meshing fibers as distinct bundles represented by truss elements embedded in a matrix material mesh allows for the assignment of more specific material properties for each component rather than homogenization of all of the properties. However, the implementations of the embedded element technique available in commercial software do not replace the material of the matrix elements with the material of the embedded elements. This causes a redundancy in the volume calculation of the overlapping meshes leading to artificially increased stiffness and mass. This paper investigates the consequences in the energy calculations of an explicit dynamic model due to this redundancy. A method for the correction of the edundancy within a finite element code is suggested which removes extra energy and is shown to be effective at correcting the energy calculations for large amounts of redundant volume.
[162] Markowska, Katarzyna,Malinowska, Katarzyna,Kuczynski, Lechoslaw .<monospace>rangr</monospace>: An R package for mechanistic, spatially explicit simulation of species range dynamics[J].Methods in Ecology and Evolution,2025,16 (3):468-476,WILEY
摘要：Global change driven by human activities is causing profound shifts in species distributions. Understanding the mechanisms that influence these dynamics is crucial for biodiversity management. Several mechanistic, spatially explicit models have been proposed to address this issue, but they do not cover the full range of potential functionalities. We present a new open-source R package called rangr, which integrates population dynamics and dispersal into a mechanistic virtual species simulator. The package can be used to study the effects of environmental change on population growth and range shifts. It extends the capabilities of previously available simulators by allowing simple and straightforward definition of population dynamics (including positive density dependence), extensive possibilities for defining dispersal kernels and the ability to generate virtual ecologist data. We showcased rangr functionality by simulating the invasion of the collared dove (Streptopelia decaocto). First, we demonstrated how to set up a simulation with different dispersal kernels by investigating the role of long-distance dispersal events on colonisation outcome. Second, we showed the use of rangr to assess the potential of an Allee effect to impede biological invasion. Finally, we used the virtual ecologist framework to determine the timeframe required to detect the spread of an invasive species. The rangr package, which comes with extensive documentation and vignettes, is easy to set up, flexible, fast, fully configurable and capable of emulating the observation process. These features make rangr particularly well suited to generating data that replicate existing wildlife monitoring programmes.
[163] Paul Larousse,David Dureisseix,Anthony Gravouil ,等.A thermodynamically based explicit transient dynamics framework for large transformation contact problems[J].Finite Elements in Analysis and Design,2025,251 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：An explicit framework to solve fast dynamic problems with large transformation and rigid-deformable contact, involving non-regular and non-linear behaviors is under concern. Based on previous works, a framework combining thermodynamically-based behaviors and the so-called explicit symplectic time integrator CD-Lagrange owning good energy properties is developed. In this article, the interface behavior is modeled with a cohesive zone model, the RCCM delayed damage model, and for the deformable body, a hyper-elastic Saint-Venant–Kirchhoff model coupled with viscous effects is chosen. The modular proposed framework shows that switching between a large transformation or a small perturbation problem (and a wide range of non-linear laws both on the interface or in the bulk) is non-intrusive in terms of numerical implementation and dedicated spatial interface integration in the framework of finite elements. In this work, illustrations and feasibility are exemplified for a simplified unmolding industrial case.
[164] Miao, Shuai,Liu, Ziqi,Zhang, Lei ,等.Construction and Analysis for Adams Explicit Discretization of High-Index Saddle Dynamics[J].CSIAM Transactions on Applied Mathematics,2025,6 (3):625-650,GLOBAL SCIENCE PRESS
摘要：Saddle points largely exist in complex systems and play important roles in various scientific problems. High-index saddle dynamics (HiSD) is an efficient method for computing any-index saddle points and constructing solution landscape. In this paper, we propose a two-step Adams explicit scheme for HiSD and analyze its error estimate versus time step. Through careful argumentation and overcoming the difficulties caused by nonlinear coupling and orthogonalisation, we prove that the two-step Adams explicit scheme has second-order accuracy. The theoretical results are further verified by two numerical experiments.
[165] Yusuke Ootani,Arisa Chiba,Yukihi Hara ,等.Molecular-Scale Wear Process of Swollen Polymer Brushes at the Sliding Interface: Coarse-Grained Molecular Dynamics Simulation with Explicit Solvent[J].Macromolecules,2026,59 (10):5998-6005,American Chemical Society
摘要：Polymer brushes (PBs) swollen in good solvents are promising lubricating materials, and their wear resistance is critical for long-term functionality. However, the wear mechanisms of PBs remain poorly understood. In this study, coarse-grained molecular dynamics-based sliding simulations were conducted on PBs swollen in an explicit solvent to elucidate their wear behavior. The sliding behavior of PBs was categorized into three types depending on the normal load and sliding speed: (1) no penetration of the slider at a low normal load; (2) penetration of the slider at a high normal load and low sliding speed; and (3) penetration accompanied by detachment of the PB surface from the rear of the slider at a high normal load and high sliding speed. Significant wear was observed only in the third type. In this case, large forces are exerted on the polymer chains because they cannot respond quickly enough to follow the rapid motion of the slider, leading to intensive wear at the front part of the contact area. In addition to this intensive wear, sporadic wear was observed in the surface and subsurface regions away from the contact area. Correlation analysis revealed that this sporadic wear is associated with regions of high momentum density of solvent, suggesting a solvent-induced scission mechanism, in which polymer chains are stretched and broken by the solvent flow. Together, these findings clarify the dual origins of wear in polymer brush systems: direct mechanical scission owing to slider contact and solvent-induced scission driven by flow. Our results also demonstrate that explicit solvent treatment is indispensable for revealing the PB wear mechanisms that are overlooked in implicit-solvent models. This understanding provides a unified framework for describing both intensive and sporadic wear phenomena in the swollen PBs.
[166] Xin Zhao,Wei Fan,Zhenhuan Wang ,等.An explicit finite element approach for simulations of transient meshing contact of gear pairs and the resulting wear[J].Wear,2023,523 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A 3D time-domain modelling approach is developed with the explicit finite element method to simulate transient meshing contact of gear pairs and the resulting wear. Taking a helical gear pair used in a locomotive as an example, the dynamic contact states of gear teeth are predicted for different speeds in consideration of actual geometries (including those of damaged teeth), time dependent torques, and structural and continuum vibrations of the gear system. The friction between mating teeth is taken into account by a non-Newtonian EHL friction model. A tiny time step of 4.5 × 10<sup>−8</sup> s determined by conditional stability of the explicit time integration ensures the capture of transient effects. Based on detailed contact solutions during meshing, the dynamic wear on teeth is further calculated using an Archard wear model to predict tooth profile evolvement. Taking initial involute profiles and a speed of 120 km/h, the model is first validated for dynamic contact solutions. More results show that structural vibrations and worn profiles influence the dynamic meshing contact significantly, tooth wear increases as lubrication fails, and tooth pitting's influence is localized. This approach provides key load boundaries for detailed studies on mating gears, and may be employed for studies on tooth damages and as a reference for lumped parameter dynamic models of gear pairs. © 2023 Elsevier B.V.
[167] Javanbakht, Mahdi,Rahbar, Hossein,Ashourian, Milad .Explicit nonlinear finite element approach to the Lagrangian-based coupled phase field and elasticity equations for nanoscale thermal- and stress-induced martensitic transformations[J].Continuum Mechanics and Thermodynamics,2023,35 (3):821-840,SPRINGER
摘要：In this paper, a nonlinear finite element procedure is developed to solve the coupled system of phase field and elasticity equations at large strains for martensitic phase transformations at the nanoscale. The transformation is defined based on an order parameter which varies between 0 for austenite to one for martensite. The phase field equation relates the rate of change of the order parameter to the Helmholtz free energy. Both the Helmholtz free energy and the transformational strain tensor depend on the order parameter, and the coupling between the phase field and elasticity equations occurs due to the presence of elastic energy in the Helmholtz free energy and the transformational strain in the total strain. The deformation gradient tensor is introduced as a multiplicative decomposition of elastic and transformational gradient tensors. A staggered strategy is used to solve the coupled system of equations so that first, the principle of virtual work is utilized to obtain the integral form of the Lagrangian equation of motion. It is then discretized and solved using the Newton-Raphson method which gives the displacements and consequently, the deformation gradient tensor. Next, since the order parameter is obtained from the phase field equation from the previous time step, the elastic deformation gradient tensor and the first Piola-Kirchhoff stress can be calculated and substituted in the phase field equation to find the order parameter for the current time step. The weighted residuals method is used to derive the finite element form of the phase field equation and the explicit method is used for its time discretization. The finite element procedure is well verified by comparing the obtained results with those from other simulations. Examples of thermal- and stress-induced phase transformations are presented, including austenite-martensite interface propagation and growth of preexisting martensitic regions. The developed algorithm and code can be advanced to solve
[168] Baisane, Pratik,Sakle, Nilesh .Evaluation of crashworthiness parameters for foam-filled concentric tubes using explicit dynamics simulation[M].Materials Today: Proceedings,2023,72 :1224-1230,Elsevier Ltd
摘要：Global uncertainties have increased the crude oil prices historically and the depletion of fossil fuels are key reasons to innovate to improve fuel economy. Lightweight automotive structures are one of the prominent solutions which improve fuel economy and meet the crashworthiness requirement. Literature shows researchers are working on optimizing energy absorption and reducing the weight of the automotive structure by combining shape, size, and different categories of materials with different configurations of concentric tubes. Along with energy absorption, it is important to reduce the weight of vehicles by using lightweight materials grade. Promising lightweight materials such as foams and composites help to improve the crumple zone's crashworthiness by reducing weight and improving energy absorption. Foam improves crush stability and deformation pattern of the structure during impact loading. This research paper discusses a finite element analysis method using Ansys Explicit solver and its result validation with an experimental UTM compression test with some boundary conditions. This validated CAE model is used to predict the result of a quasi-static test, foam-filled tubes with various shapes and materials such as AA6063-T4 and Polyurethane (PU) foam and wall thicknesses (i.e., 1.5 mm and 1.7 mm) were evaluated in this paper. The quasi-static test's experimental and simulation findings were more than 80 % correlated. From CAE analysis of various combination foam-filled hexagonal structure with a 1.7 mm wall thickness showed better specific energy absorption (SEA): 10.69 KJ/Kg, lower maximum crush force (Fmax): 51.01 KN, and highest crush force efficiency (CFE): 67 % as compared to other structures. A velocity scaling method was used to improve the computational efficiency of the solver by increasing the time increment. Velocity scaling has a negligible effect on the accuracy of results which meet the result of quasi-static compression test performed on UTM mach
[169] Wang, Changsheng,Xing, Bohan,Zhou, Qiaodan .A Total-Lagrangian Generalized Particle Domain Method for Explicit Solid Dynamics[J].International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering,2025,126 (22),WILEY
摘要：This paper introduces a total-Lagrangian generalized particle domain method (TLGPDM) for explicit solid dynamics. In contrast to the updated Lagrangian generalized particle domain method (ULGPDM), TLGPDM consistently references the initial configuration throughout the computation. As a result, the basis functions and their derivatives are computed only once prior to the simulation loop, thereby substantially reducing the computational cost. In addition, a comprehensive contact algorithm is developed within the TLGPDM framework. Building upon the pinball contact algorithm, it incorporates a global search, a local search, and a refined contact force computation, thus enhancing the robustness and accuracy of contact treatment under the total-Lagrangian formulation. Four benchmark examples are presented to validate the proposed method and to assess its performance. The numerical results demonstrate that TLGPDM achieves superior computational efficiency compared with ULGPDM. Moreover, the proposed contact algorithm outperforms the conventional pinball contact algorithm in both accuracy and efficiency when applied within the TLGPDM framework.
[170] Zeng, Fan,Liu, Yong-Bao,Wang, Qiang ,等.Simulation analysis of rolling bearings based on explicit dynamics[M].Journal of Physics: Conference Series,2022,2383 (1),Institute of Physics
摘要：Based on LS-PrePost software, the three-dimensional display of healthy cylindrical roller bearings was established finite element model for dynamic simulation. Based on the explicit algorithm, the model analyzes the law of bearing stress level with radial outward load under the conditions of friction contact, speed and load, and based on the healthy roller bearing model, simulates the local spalling fault of the outer raceway by setting the unit defect, and analyzes the equivalent force change process when the roller through the fault area. The simulation results are compared with the theoretical calculation results to verify the correctness of the finite element model of the faulty bearings, and provide a certain reference for the fault diagnosis of rolling bearings. © Published under licence by IOP Publishing Ltd.
[171] Moussaoui, Ali .A SPATIALLY EXPLICIT BIOECONOMIC FISHERY MODEL WITH ENDOGENOUS PRICE DYNAMICS: MULTIPLE EQUILIBRIA AND SUSTAINABILITY[J].Discrete and Continuous Dynamical Systems - S,2026,AMER INST MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES-AIMS
摘要：. In this study, we analyze a coupled fishery model governed by a system of partial differential equations (PDEs) and ordinary differential equations (ODEs), in which the spatial dynamics of the fish population interact with economic variables such as fishing effort and market price. Fish density is described by a reaction-diffusion logistic PDE, while fishing effort and market price evolve according to nonlinear ODEs nonlocally coupled to the population through total catch and supply-demand balance. This framework defines an integrated bioeconomic system linking spatial ecology, harvesting behavior, and market dynamics. Using semigroup theory on an appropriate Banach space, together with maximum principles and a priori estimates, we establish the existence, uniqueness, nonnegativity, and global boundedness of classical solutions for all nonnegative initial data. We then derive a generic market price equation (MPE) whose solutions characterize the model's nontrivial equilibria. Depending on parameter values, the MPE may admit up to three equilibria, whose local and global stability properties are analyzed. Numerical simulations illustrate and support the theoretical results.
[172] Znegui, Wafa,Gritli, Hassene .Walking Dynamics of the 2-Link Compass Biped Robot: Further Analysis Using the First Explicit Form of the Poincaré Map[M],2025,Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
摘要：In our previous studies, we have focused on generating a new explicit form of the Poincaré Map (P Map) in order to investigate and control the passive walking dynamics of the 2 -link compass biped robot. The developed explicit form was evaluated by varying the surface slope angle and comparing the results to the original natural behavior of the biped robot. In the present paper, our objective is to explore different aspects of the biped robot's passive walking dynamics by investigating further the first explicit form of the P-Map and identifying local bifurcations for different nominal slope angles. We demonstrate that the observed results align with our earlier findings and a local bifurcation;namely the subcritical flip bifurcation is detected highlighting the period-doubling bifurcation phenomenon observed in the overall system. This research represents the first milestone in our forthcoming work which focuses on tracking and depicting unstable limit cycles and developing energy-efficient control laws. © 2025 IEEE.
[173] Gudadappanavar, Basavaraj,Selvakumar, M.,Yeole, Mayura M. ,等.Explicit-Dynamics Assessment of Reinforced Concrete Frame Response under TNT Blast: Stand-Off, Charge Weight and Incidence Angle Effects[J].SSRG International Journal of Civil Engineering,2026,13 (3):255-273,Seventh Sense Research Group
摘要：The non-linear dynamic response of a Reinforced Concrete (RC) frame to external blast loading was examined in ANSYS Workbench Explicit Dynamics. A parametric matrix of 32 simulations was generated based on variations in equivalent charge weight (TNT) of 100, 200, 400, and 800 kg, stand-off distance 5, 10, 15, and 20 m, and angle of incidence 0° and 90°. The frame response was quantified using total frame deformation and equivalent von Mises stress and strain for both concrete and rebar. Frame response by deformation, stress, and strain was found to behave consistently with monotonic escalation for increased charge weight (range 100–800 kg) and strongly attenuated for increasing stand-off distance, 5 m to 20 m. Frame deformation was shown to be the most important parameter for mitigating blast loads, as increasing stand-off distance from 5 m to 20 m resulted in about a 79–92% reduction in peak deformation, depending on the charge weight and incidence angle. The angle of incidence also significantly influenced directional response demand and partitioning of the response;increasing the angle of incidence from 0° to 90° resulted in a 65% reduction of peak deformation in all simulations, with stand-off distance also being the most effective mitigation parameter. Reductions of equivalent strain were found to increase more than equivalent stress, with a 76% decrease in concrete and a 74% decrease in rebar. These findings enhance blast performance evaluation of concrete frames, identifying the effects of standard distances and loading direction on load-mitigation design. © 2026 Seventh Sense Research Group.
[174] Badia-Boher, Jaume A.,Hernandez-Matias, Antonio,Manosa, Santi ,等.Fall and rise of a threatened raptor: Unraveling long-term population dynamics with spatially explicit integrated models[J].Ecological Applications,2025,35 (2),WILEY
摘要：Population dynamics are governed by the so-called four BIDE processes: birth, immigration, death, and emigration. However, most population models fail to explicitly consider all four processes, which may hinder a comprehensive understanding of how and why populations change over time. The advent of Integrated Population Models (IPMs) and recent developments in spatial mark-recapture models have enabled deeper insights into demography and dispersal. In this study, we merged both kinds of models into a spatially explicit IPM. By integrating count, reproduction, mark-recapture, and dispersal data, this framework permitted the separate modeling of all BIDE processes, which subsequently allowed (1) a fine-scale estimation of population dynamics and (2) the estimation of central population parameters and stages that have traditionally been elusive in demographic studies but are key to applied conservation, such as the long-term dynamics of floaters (sexually mature non-breeders), sink-source status, and dispersal processes. Using this approach, we carried out a fine-scale assessment of the long-term dynamics and demographic drivers of one long-lived Bonelli's eagle population from Western Europe (1986-2020). Our results illustrated a considerable population decline and subsequent recovery alongside multiple demographic insights scarcely documented to date in long-lived species. First, we reported a decrease and subsequent increase in floater numbers probably associated with parallel changes in the breeding population, hence contributing to the scarce empirical knowledge available about the role and dynamics of floaters. Second, we detected a change in average population functioning from a sink to a neutral contributor, thus shedding light on the flexibility and drivers of sink-source dynamics. Third, we underscored the central role of non-breeder survival for population recovery, suggesting that long-lived species conservation action should not only focus on adult or bree
[175] Carlo Albani,Davide Avagliano .PULSE-PySpawn: Time-Resolved Transient Absorption Simulation throughAb InitioMultiple Spawning Dynamics with Explicit Pulses[J].Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters,2026,17 (11):3259-3265,American Chemical Society
摘要：We report a new workflow to model time-resolved transient absorption spectra based on propagating non-adiabatic dynamics withab initiomultiple spawning. By explicitly including a laser field in the molecular Hamiltonian, we can model both the effect of a pump pulse in depopulating the ground state and a series of probe pulses to monitor the evolution of the nuclear density. We developed a flexible and efficient workflow that enables the inclusion of probes of different energies at different time delays, matching real experimental conditions. In this way, we are able to reconstruct the spectroscopic signal from a single set of trajectories. We included our workflow in the open-source code PySpawn to exploit all of the implementations recently added to this software and to ensure wider usability of our method. Finally, we showed the applicability and strength of our development in simulating and interpreting the time-resolved transient absorption spectrum of azomethane.
[176] Julio Marti,Eugenio Oñate .Enhanced semi-explicit particle finite element method via a modified Strang splitting operator for incompressible flows[J].Computational Particle Mechanics,2023,10 (6):1463-1475,Elsevier Science
摘要：This work presents an enhanced version of the semi-explicit particle finite element method for incompressible flow problems. This goal is achieved by improving the methodology that results from applying the Strang splitting operator by adding an acceleration term. The advective step is evaluated on the mesh considering the new term leading to a more efficient algorithm. Two test cases are solved for validating the methodology and estimating its accuracy. The numerical results demonstrate that the proposed scheme improves the accuracy and the computational efficiency of the semi-explicit PFEM scheme.
[177] Nutu, Emil,Pastrama, Stefan-Dan,Gruionu, Lucian ,等.EXPLICIT DYNAMICS SIMULATION OF THE CATHETER MOVEMENT DURING BRONCHOSCOPIC SAMPLING OF PULMONARY NODULES[M].Materials Today: Proceedings,2022,93 :630-635,Greek Society of Experimental Mechanics of Materials (GSEMM)
摘要：The paper presents an explicit dynamics approach for modelling the catheter movement inside the bronchial tree. A numerical model of the bronchial tree is considered, and a straight beam is used to simulate the catheter. The purpose is to test whether such approach can be used for modeling catheter insertion process as a means for studying tissue interaction tools and for preintervention planning. It is shown that by proper combination of the imposed initial and boundary conditions it is possible to considerably reduce the computational cost while obtaining realistic physical tissue-tool interaction. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
[178] Subramani Sockalingam,Karan Kodagali,Michael A. Sutton ,等.Direct spatio-temporal stress field determination combining full-field deformation measurements and explicit finite element method: Concept verification[J].Extreme Mechanics Letters,2023,65 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：High strain rate loading of materials with spatially heterogeneous properties produces non-homogeneous and transient stress-strain states. Such stress-strain states are atypical of classical split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) analysis that assumes homogeneous deformation and dynamic force equilibrium. To determine spatio-temporal stress fields in heterogeneous materials, a novel concept combining digital image correlation (DIC) full-field deformation measurements and explicit dynamic finite element method (EFEM) is described in this paper. The concept utilizes measured boundary forces and DIC measurements including both displacements and accelerations as input. The measured input is used to calculate internal forces, and hence the stress fields, within each continuum finite element by solving the governing equations of motion using the framework of EFEM. The DIC+EFEM concept procedure is verified using simulated synthetic data considering one-dimensional stress wave propagation in a bar. The reconstructed axial stress fields match identically with the exact EFEM solution for both homogeneous and heterogeneous materials that are elastic or elastic-plastic. The influence of DIC measurement noise on the reconstructed stresses is also studied. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[179] Ma, Chupeng,Alber, Christian,Scheichl, Robert .WAVENUMBER EXPLICIT CONVERGENCE OF A MULTISCALE GENERALIZED FINITE ELEMENT METHOD FOR HETEROGENEOUS HELMHOLTZ PROBLEMS*[J].SIAM Journal on Numerical Analysis,2023,61 (3):1546-1584,SIAM PUBLICATIONS
摘要：In this paper, a generalized finite element (FE) method with optimal local approximation spaces for solving high-frequency heterogeneous Helmholtz problems is systematically studied. The local spaces are built from selected eigenvectors of carefully designed local eigenvalue problems defined on generalized harmonic spaces. At both continuous and discrete levels, (i) wavenumber explicit and nearly exponential decay rates for local and global approximation errors are obtained without any assumption on the size of subdomains and (ii) a quasi-optimal convergence of the method is established by assuming that the size of subdomains is O(1/k) (k is the wavenumber). A novel resonance effect between the wavenumber and the dimension of local spaces on the decay of error with respect to the oversampling size is implied by the analysis. Furthermore, for fixed dimensions of local spaces, the discrete local errors are proved to converge as h \rightarrow 0 (h denoting the mesh size) toward the continuous local errors. The method at the continuous level extends the plane wave partipp. 727--758] to the heterogeneous-coefficients case, and at the discrete level, it delivers an efficient noniterative domain decomposition method for solving discrete Helmholtz problems resulting from standard FE discretizations. Numerical results are provided to confirm the theoretical analysis and to validate the proposed method.
[180] Ren, Wu,Zhao, Ziya,He, Shuaiheng ,等.Modeling and analysis of explicit dynamics of foot landing[J].Medical & Biological Engineering & Computing,2025,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：The research aims to investigate the mechanical response of footfalls at different velocities to understand the mechanism of heel injury and provide a scientific basis for the prevention and treatment of heel fractures. A three-dimensional solid model of foot drop was constructed using anatomical structures segmented from medical CT scans, including bone, cartilage, ligaments, plantar fascia, and soft tissues, and the impact velocities of the foot were set to be 2 m/s, 4 m/s, 6 m/s, 8 m/s, and 10 m/s. Explicit kinetic analysis methods were used to investigate the mechanical response of the foot landing with different speeds to explore the damage mechanism of heel bone at different impact velocities. Lower impact velocities result in relatively low stress on the medial cortex and posterior talar articular bony surfaces, which may result in minor injury or stress adaptation in the heel. As the impact velocity increases, the stresses on the medial cortex and posterior taller articular surface also increase significantly, greatly raising the risk of heel fractures. This study holds significant implications for safeguarding foot health and enhancing the safety of athletes and individuals engaged in high-impact sports.
[181] Cheng, Yue,Wang, Tingchun,Xu, Mengtao .Uniform error bound of an explicit exponential wave integrator Fourier pseudo-spectral method for the long-time dynamics of the nonlinear Schrödinger equation with wave operator[J].International Journal of Computer Mathematics,2025,102 (9):1365-1384,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：This paper presents a novel exponential wave integral Fourier pseudo-spectral method tailored for solving the nonlinear Schr & ouml;dinger equation with a wave operator (NLSW) under conditions of weak nonlinearity, where 0<<= 1. The method is an explicit, time-reversible and two-level scheme that accurately approximates both the function u and its time derivative partial derivative at each computational step. A central feature of this approach is the use of the trapezoidal rule, which facilitates the derivation of a uniform error estimate valid up to time =((-beta)) with 0 <=beta <= 2. The error is quantified as (2)-beta(2)+h(-1) in the discrete 1 norm, and this estimate applies equally to (the discrete approximation of u) and (the discrete approximation of partial derivative), regardless of the discrete grid parameters. Theoretical findings are further substantiated by numerical experiments, which confirm the accuracy and reliability of the proposed method.
[182] Egor S. Kolesnikov,Yeyue Xiong,Alexey V. Onufriev .Implicit Solvent with Explicit Ions Generalized Born Model in Molecular Dynamics: Application to DNA[J].Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation,2024,20 (19):8724-8739,American Chemical Society
摘要：The ion atmosphere surrounding highly charged biomolecules, such as nucleic acids, is crucial for their dynamics, structure, and interactions. Here, we develop an approach for the explicit treatment of ions within an implicit solvent framework suitable for atomistic simulations of biomolecules. The proposed implicit solvent/explicit ions model,GBION, is based on a modified generalized Born (GB) model; it includes separate, modified GB terms for solute–ion and ion–ion interactions. The model is implemented in the AMBER package (version 24), and its performance is thoroughly investigated in atomistic molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of double-stranded DNA on a microsecond time scale. The aggregate characteristics of monovalent (Na+and K+) and trivalent (Cobalt Hexammine, CoHex3+) counterion distributions around double-stranded DNA predicted by the model are in reasonable agreement with the experiment (where available), all-atom explicit water MD simulations, and the expectation from the Manning condensation theory. The radial distributions of monovalent cations around DNA are reasonably close to the ones obtained using the explicit water model: expressed in units of energy, the maximum deviations of local ion concentrations from the explicit solvent reference are within 1kBT, comparable to the corresponding deviations expected between different established explicit water models. The proposedGBIONmodel is able to simulate DNA fragments in a large volume of solvent with explicit ions with little additional computational overhead compared with the fully implicit GB treatment of ions. Ions simulated using the developed model explore conformational space at least 2 orders of magnitude faster than in the explicit solvent. These advantages allowed us to observe and explore an unexpected “stacking” mode of DNA condensation in the presence of trivalent counterions (CoHex3+) that was revealed by recent experiments.
[183] Li, Changqing,Li, Zhengfan,Jiang, Lizhong .A single-step unconditionally stable explicit structural dynamics algorithm[J].铁道科学与工程学报,2024,21 (3):1136-1145,Central South University Press
摘要：In structural dynamics analysis, numerical integration methods are usually used to efficiently and accurately solve the response of complex structural systems under dynamic loads. Based on the principle of dimensional analysis, a single-step unconditionally stable explicit algorithm for solving structural dynamics problems was proposed. Firstly, the dimensionless processing of the constructed functional relationship between displacement and velocity was carried out. Then, the final recursive format of the algorithm was determined by the accuracy requirements, unconditional stability conditions and numerical damping controllable conditions. According to the final recursive format of the algorithm, the dissipation and dispersion characteristics, overshoot and self-starting characteristics of the algorithm and the calculation steps of the multi-degree-of-freedom system were obtained. Finally, the convergence accuracy, controllable numerical damping and computational efficiency advantages of the algorithm were verified by some examples. The results show that for linear and nonlinear systems, the algorithm has both the non-iterative characteristics of the explicit algorithm and the unconditional stability of the implicit algorithm. The algorithm can realize self-starting in the true sense and has no overshoot in velocity and displacement. The numerical damping of the algorithm is controlled by a single free parameter, and the influence of numerical dissipation and dispersion on the low-mode response of the system can be neglected. Compared with the representative non-iterative explicit KR-α algorithm, the algorithm introduces numerical damping to filter out spurious high-frequency modes while retaining the contribution of low-order modes more realistically, thus showing better calculation accuracy. The algorithm has computational efficiency advantages over the commonly used implicit algorithms in solving nonlinear structural dynamics problems, and is slightly better than
[184] Subaharan, Sukesh .Controlling Long-Horizon Behavior in Language Model Agents with Explicit State Dynamics[J].arXiv,2026,arXiv
摘要：Large language model (LLM) agents often exhibit abrupt shifts in tone and persona during extended interaction, reflecting the absence of explicit temporal structure governing agent-level state. While prior work emphasizes turn-local sentiment or static emotion classification, the role of explicit affective dynamics in shaping long-horizon agent behavior remains underexplored. This work investigates whether imposing dynamical structure on an external affective state can induce temporal coherence and controlled recovery in multi-turn dialogue. We introduce an agent-level affective subsystem that maintains a continuous Valence-Arousal-Dominance (VAD) state external to the language model and governed by first- and second-order update rules. Instantaneous affective signals are extracted using a fixed, memoryless estimator and integrated over time via exponential smoothing or momentum-based dynamics. The resulting affective state is injected back into generation without modifying model parameters. Using a fixed 25-turn dialogue protocol, we compare stateless, first-order, and second-order affective dynamics. Stateless agents fail to exhibit coherent trajectories or recovery, while state persistence enables delayed responses and reliable recovery. Second-order dynamics introduce affective inertia and hysteresis that increase with momentum, revealing a trade-off between stability and *** Codes 68T01 © 2026, CC BY.
[185] Steindorf, Vanessa,Srivastav, Akhil Kumar,Stollenwerk, Nico ,等.Beyond the biting - limited impact of explicit mosquito dynamics in dengue models[J].BMC Infectious Diseases,2024,24 (1):1-11,BMC
摘要：Mathematical models play a crucial role in assisting public health authorities in timely disease control decision-making. For vector-borne diseases, integrating host and vector dynamics into models can be highly complex, particularly due to limited data availability, making system validation challenging. In this study, two compartmental models akin to the SIR type were developed to characterize vector-borne infectious disease dynamics. Motivated by dengue fever epidemiology, the models varied in their treatment of vector dynamics, one with implicit vector dynamics and the other explicitly modeling mosquito-host contact. Both considered temporary immunity after primary infection and disease enhancement in secondary infection, analogous to the temporary cross-immunity and the Antibody-dependent enhancement biological processes observed in dengue epidemiology. Qualitative analysis using bifurcation theory and numerical experiments revealed that the immunity period and disease enhancement outweighed the impact of explicit vector dynamics. Both models demonstrated similar bifurcation structures, indicating that explicit vector dynamics are only justified when assessing the effects of vector control methods. Otherwise, the extra equations are irrelevant, as both systems display similar dynamics scenarios. The study underscores the importance of using simple models for mathematical analysis, initiating crucial discussions among the modeling community in vector-borne diseases.
[186] Namadchi, Amir Hossein,Alamatian, Javad .Explicit eigenanalysis in structural dynamics using viscous dynamic relaxation method[J].The European Physical Journal Plus,2022,137 (10):1-14,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：This paper introduces a novel application of the dynamic relaxation (DR) method with viscous damping for solving eigenvalue problems arising from finite element simulation of structural dynamics. The scheme is a simple vector iteration solver based on the fundamental concepts of structural dynamics, which has been successfully employed in various applications of computational mechanics, including linear and nonlinear, form findings, buckling, and dynamic analyses. However, the potentiality of the method in solving eigenvalue problems in structural dynamics has not been investigated yet. The present work attempts to generalize the DR algorithm for tackling partial eigenproblems in vibration analysis. For analysis of higher modes, DR is supplemented by a simple mode purification procedure. Some numerical examples are solved via the suggested algorithm and comparisons are also made with other published results. The method is simple, easy to grasp, and only uses matrix-vector multiplications.
[187] Hu, Guang,Xiao, Yi,Xin, Huanhai ,等.An Extended Impedance Model for Power Electronics Converters Retaining Explicit Synchronization Dynamics[J].IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics,2025,40 (1):2355-2370,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：In power systems with a high penetration of renewable energy, grid-forming and grid-following inverters coexist with synchronous generators. The wide-frequency-band dynamic interactions among various machines result in intricate interactions involving electromagnetic dynamics and synchronous behaviors, posing challenges for stability analysis. Thus, this article proposes an extended impedance model (EIM) that introduces an additional degree of freedom to separate the synchronous dynamics from the electromagnetic dynamics. Input and output variables corresponding to the electromagnetic and synchronous dynamics are independently retained in the proposed EIM. It allows for analyzing specific stability issues by selecting an appropriate dominant loop of concern. Subsequently, a method to identify the dominant loop associated with weakly dampened modes is presented, and an index is introduced to assess the applicability of the derived models. Note that the EIM is obtained without introducing any model redundancy, while it maintains the scalability of impedance models. Using the proposed EIM for stability analysis enables a more extensive and flexible selection of the dominant loops, facilitating the pinpointing of the root cause of instability. The efficacy of the model has been validated through simulations and experimental tests.
[188] Peschel, Martin T.,Kussmann, Joerg,Ochsenfeld, Christian ,等.Simulation of the non-adiabatic dynamics of an enone-Lewis acid complex in an explicit solvent[J].Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics,2024,26 (35):23256-23263,ROYAL SOC CHEMISTRY
摘要：Unlocking the full potential of Lewis acid catalysis for photochemical transformations requires a comprehensive understanding of the ultrafast dynamics of substrate-Lewis acid complexes. In a previous article [Peschel et al., Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 2021, 60, 10155], time-resolved spectroscopy supported by static calculations revealed that the Lewis acid remains attached during the relaxation of the model complex cyclohexenone-BF3. In contrast to the experimental observation, surface-hopping dynamics in the gas phase predicted ultrafast heterolytic dissociation. We attributed the discrepancy to missing solvent interactions. Thus, in this work, we present an interface between the SHARC and FermiONs++ program packages, which enables us to investigate the ultrafast dynamics of cyclohexenone-BF3 in an explicit solvent environment. Our simulations demonstrate that the solvent prevents the dissociation of the complex, leading to an intriguing dissociation-reassociation mechanism. Comparing the dynamics with and without triplet states highlights their role in the relaxation process and shows that the Lewis acid inhibits intersystem crossing. These findings provide a clear picture of the relaxation process, which may aid in designing future Lewis acid catalysts for photochemical applications. They underscore that an explicit solvent model is required to describe relaxation processes in weakly bound states, as energy transfer to the solvent is crucial for the system to reach its minimum geometries. Lewis acid catalysis is a promising tool in photochemistry. Thus, the ultrafast dynamics of a substrate-Lewis acid complex is investigated in silico, which reveals an intriguing dissociation-reassociation mechanism.
[189] Sanavio, Claudio,Mauri, Enea,Succi, Sauro .Explicit Quantum Circuit for Simulating the Advection-Diffusion-Reaction Dynamics[J].IEEE Transactions on Quantum Engineering,2025,6 (1):1-12,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：We assess the convergence of the Carleman linearization of advection-diffusion-reaction (ADR) equations with a logistic nonlinearity. It is shown that five Carleman iterates provide a satisfactory approximation of the original ADR across a broad range of parameters and strength of nonlinearity. To assess the feasibility of a quantum algorithm based on this linearization, we analyze the projection of the Carleman ADR matrix onto the tensor Pauli basis. It is found that the Carleman ADR matrix requires an exponential number of Pauli gates as a function of the number of qubits. This prevents the practical implementation of the Carleman approach to the quantum simulation of ADR problems on current hardware. We propose to address this limitation by resorting to block-encoding techniques for sparse matrix employing oracles. Such quantum ADR oracles are presented in explicit form and shown to turn the exponential complexity into a polynomial one. However, due to the low probability of successfully implementing the nonunitary Carleman operator, further research is needed to implement the multitimestep version of the present circuit.
[190] Trevisin, Cristiano,Kamber, Lars,Mari, Lorenzo ,等.A Spatially Explicit Model of the Dynamics of Opisthorchis viverrini Spread[J].Ecohydrology,2025,18 (2),WILEY
摘要：Opisthorchis viverrini is a water-based disease-causing parasite whose public health implications are relevant in Southeast Asia. Untreated or chronic infections often lead to severe hepatobiliary morbidity including cholangiocarcinoma, a lethal bile duct cancer. The liver fluke O. viverrini can be contracted by consumption of raw fish, after which it settles in the small biliary ducts. The life cycle involves, besides freshwater snails in which asexual reproduction takes place, freshwater cyprinid fish as intermediate hosts. Piscivorous mammals, including humans, dogs and cats, are definitive hosts. Here, we propose a spatially explicit model for the transmission dynamics in realistic freshwater environments. Our model generalises existing local-scale models by assimilating novel spreading mechanisms in space and time. Our study emphasises that spatial connectivity is key to shaping patterns of disease spread. Fish distribution and mobility through river corridors affect disease transmission routes. Our study provides baseline information on the role of connected freshwater bodies and their suitability for intermediate and final hosts. The distributions of fish catch and fish market supplies are also considered because they affect the spatiotemporal spread of opisthorchiasis. Adding a spatial component to transmission models fundamentally changes the description of epidemiological dynamics and the related scenarios of disease propagation through an improved description of the ecology of hosts, parasites and their transmission cycles. This work provides a more realistic description of the environment where infection cycles develop and spread than previous modelling attempts did, thus allowing a better characterisation of transmission routes and enabling a proper design of containment measures.
[191] Gadingan, Joshua,Ingwerson, Adam R.,Grazioli, Gianmarc .Large-scale molecular dynamics simulations of amyloid fibril breakage mechanics in explicit solvent for comparison with AFM experiments[M].BIOPHYSICAL JOURNAL,2026,125 (4):378a-378a,CELL PRESS
[192] Agrawal, Hemant,Roy, Siddhartha,Singh, Chitranjan Prasad .An Investigation into Influence of Blasthole Diameter on Ground Vibration at a Mega Opencast Coal Mine using Explicit Dynamics[J].Journal of Mining and Environment,2025,16 (5):1557-1568,SHAHROOD UNIV TECHNOLOGY
摘要：Deep hole blasting is essential for high-capacity excavators like draglines and shovels to achieve high production targets in opencast coal mining. However, a critical challenge associated with deep hole blasting is ground vibration, which poses risks to nearby infrastructure, including power plants, the Rihand Dam, and local settlements near the Khadia Opencast coal mine. This study aims to analyze the effect of blast hole diameter on peak particle velocity (PPV) to improve vibration control. Experimental investigations were conducted by executing multiple blasts using hole diameters of 159 mm, 269 mm, and 311 mm across different benches of the Khadia mine, with PPV values recorded at various scaled distances. The observed relationship between PPV and hole diameter was further validated through explicit dynamic modeling of the mine's geology and blast conditions using ANSYS-Autodyn software. The results presents some exclusive observation that with same charge per delay, for smaller distances i.e. for less than 90 m the values of PPV is always higher in large diameter hole blasting while for distance above 500 m the PPV values are higher in smaller diameter holes blasting. The results provide a unique insight for optimizing blast parameters to minimize ground vibrations while maintaining production efficiency.
[193] Héloïse Muller,Etienne Auclair,Aubin Woehrel ,等.Site-level and spatially-explicit modelling provides some insights on key factors driving seasonal dynamics of an intertidal seagrass[J].Ecological Modelling,2024,495 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In a context of worldwide decline and given the critical ecological role of marine seagrasses to coastal ecosystem structure and functioning, regional conservation initiatives have emerged over the past thirty years to protect these important habitat-forming species. Yet, effective interventions need to account for site-specific processes and stressors. Thus, our ability to accurately predict seagrass dynamics is pivotal to support management interventions. To date, determinist process-based modelling has provided important insights on the drivers of seagrass dynamics. Here, we developed an original model framework that combines a coastal hydrodynamics ocean model with local data-driven models that rely on Boosted Regression Trees to predict seasonal dynamics of patch-level and plant-level seagrass features as a function of site-specific environmental conditions. Based only on a 12-month monitoring across nine sites, seagrass traits models successfully reproduce overall seasonal dynamics based mostly on inferred relationships with monthly light and temperature, and to a lesser extent, exposure to physical stressors (i.e., currents and waves). While models fail to finely capture spatial discrepancies across all sites (especially where seagrass demonstrates higher growth potential), spatially-explicit simulations highlight how seagrass-hydrodynamics feedback across the whole bay can dampen seagrass potential for growth due to exposure to shear stress. However, this original framework offers the potential to simulate long-term changes in the extent and status of seagrass meadows in Arcachon Bay, explicit resolving hydro-sediment dynamics effects on light appears as a priority to better capture the range of feedback processes between seagrass and coastal environmental conditions. © 2024 The Author(s)
[194] Wang, Shijun,Yang, Jing,Zhang, Zhong ,等.Explicit Phase-Field Regularized Voronoi-Based Lattice Model for Quasi-Brittle Fracture and Its Finite Element Implementation[J].Science of Advanced Materials,2023,15 (8):1043-1055,AMER SCIENTIFIC PUBLISHERS
摘要：In this study, the conventional Voronoi-based irregular lattice model is regularized by the phase-field method, which effectively introduces a characteristic length parameter to overcome the mesh-size dependent solution. To circumvent the local instability (snap-back) which generally requires sophisticated arc-length control, the so-called phase-field regularized Voronoi-based lattice (PHL) model is realized using an explicit finite element solver. Furthermore, the constitutive law of quasi-brittle materials is embraced when establishing the PHL model, which is proven length-scale insensitive. We show that the PHL model with an explicit solver is very robust and computationally efficient, provided with proper parameters and parallel computing. Moreover, the necessary fine mesh size in the implicit phase-field method is greatly released in the explicit PHL model, of which accurate results could be obtained with the coarser mesh size. Several experiments are adopted to demonstrate the model, including the size effect and mix-mode bending of concrete specimens. Cracks' initiation, propagation, and coalescence could be automatically captured without any tracking algorithms. In addition, it is noteworthy IP: 127.0.0.1 On: Tue, 31 Oct 2023 10:44:06 that the model could easily be extended to coupled mechanical and transportation problems.
[195] Chen, Yanping,Yu, Liu,Yao, Changhui .An Implicit-Explicit Relaxation Extrapolated Runge-Kutta and Energy-Preserving Finite Element Method for Klein-Gordon-Schrodinger Equations[J].SSRN,2024,SSRN
摘要：An implicit-explicit (IMEX) relaxation extrapolated Runge-Kutta (RERK) and energy-preserving finite element method is designed for Klein-Gordon-Schrodinger (KGS) equations with periodic¨ boundary conditions. First, the RERK method is employed to the discretization in temporal, in order to keep the unconditionally stable and energy conservation by selecting the appropriate relaxation parameters γn. An IMEX time-marching discretization is constructed so that it need to be solved with only one linear equations in any time step. Next, the finite element method is utilized to the discretization in spatial. By the temporal-spatial splitting technique, optimal error estimates in the L2-norm and H1-norm are obtained with the convergent order O(τs + hk+1) and O(τs+hk), without any time stepsize restrictions. At last, some numerical examples are presented to demonstrate the theoretical results. © 2024, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[196] Zhang, Haichao,Xiao, Bing,Xu, Jingwen ,等.Exponential Tracking Control of Spacecraft Attitude Dynamics: Explicit Relationship Between Convergence Rate and Input Constraints[J].International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control,2026,36 (9):4902-4912,WILEY
摘要：This article provides a novel solution for spacecraft attitude control systems with input constraints. It reveals that both the convergence rate and stabilization boundary of the state trajectory are explicitly coupled with the maximum output amplitude of actuators. Specifically, an innovative control framework is introduced to achieve exponential stability of the attitude tracking error dynamics system. Therein, the control variables are augmented using a bounded hyperbolic tangent function, transforming the traditional second-order attitude control system into a higher-order one to circumvent the input constraint issue. The derivation of the controller leverages the backstepping methodology and dynamic surface technology. The properties of the bounded functions ensure that the actual input signals are strictly less than the actuator constraints. Furthermore, the framework incorporates an adaptive estimation method to ascertain the upper limit of external perturbations, thereby ensuring the system's exponential stability despite control input constraints and environmental disturbances. Simulation studies verify the accuracy of the presented findings.
[197] Gurgoze, Metin,Altinkaynak, Atakan .Variable-mass dynamics made explicit: a rotating falling-chain test case[J].European Journal of Physics,2026,47 (3),IOP Publishing Ltd
摘要：Classical variational formulations are typically presented for systems of constant total mass, which can obscure how to treat problems where a convenient subsystem gains or loses mass. We consider a guided 'falling chain' variant in which a uniform chain of length L interacts with a horizontal disc rotating at constant angular speed omega. A single generalized coordinate r(t) describes the chain length on the disc while the remaining length L-r(t) hangs vertically. We derive the same equation of motion using fixed-mass Lagrangian, D'Alembert, variable-mass and Lagrange-multiplier formulations, thus comparing energy-based, force-based, subsystem-based and constraint-based viewpoints within a single problem. A compact nondimensional form shows that the dynamics depends on a single parameter beta=omega 2L/(2g) , yields a closed-form equilibrium relation for the on-disc fraction, and allows a simple local analysis showing that this equilibrium is linearly unstable in the present idealized model. The example is intended as a short worked comparison problem for advanced analytical mechanics teaching, illustrating how subsystem choice, generalized forces, constraint reactions, and interface momentum flux must be handled in order for fixed-mass and variable-mass descriptions to remain consistent.
[198] Goudreau, G. L .Element Choices for Explicit and Implicit Nonlinear Finite-Element Computation. ISPRA Courses on Structural Dynamics - Lecture Notes[M],1983,Technical Information Center Oak Ridge Tennessee
摘要：The confrontation of the finite element technology with the awesome number crunching required for the nonlinear problem has forced a new assessment. The finite element community discovered that for impact, wave propagation and even slower impulsively driven dynamic problems, the finite difference hydrocodes were much more efficient, albeit requiring contorted mesh topologies to model practical geometries and fifty thousand time steps to follow a quasi-static process or reach static equilibrium. The experience of engineering analysis at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory has straddled both worlds, and the intent of this lecture is to review choices in the context of the two and three dimensional implicit and explicit Lagrangian codes developed in our Methods Development Group. The explicit DYNA2D and DYNA3D and implicit NIKE2D and NIKE3D of Hallquist form the focus of this discussion. (ERA citation 08:039902)
[199] Lin, Jian-ping,Chen, Bowen,Liu, Xingxi ,等.Explicit Finite Element Formulations for the Free Vibrations and Buckling of Partial-Interaction Composite Beams with Two Sub-components[J].International Journal of Steel Structures,2023,23 (4):1119-1134,KOREAN SOC STEEL CONSTRUCTION-KSSC
摘要：The variational principles and corresponding finite element formulations are developed in this work for the free vibration and buckling analysis of partial-interaction composite beams under complex engineering situations, such as axial loading conditions, non-uniform material distributions, multi-span boundaries. The composites structures consist of sub-components connected with shear connections of finite rigidities and thus suffer from the partial-interaction phenomenon, significantly affecting the structural performance. The macroscopic elements for dynamic and buckling behavior are explicitly derived by simultaneously considering the sub-elements' deformations and interlayer slips, avoiding the stress concentrations in the contact areas existing in the commercial packages. The generated frequencies and critical loads of several orders for the single- or two-span composite structures with different boundary conditions are then validated against the analytical and numerical results in the literature with well-matched agreement. The interfacial shear connections and structural parameters are also studied of their influences on the structural dynamic and buckling behavior. The present theory is finally implemented in the theoretical analysis of the steel box-girder viaduct with non-uniformly-distributed shear braces and multi-span continuous composite beams of Jiubao Bridge. The explicit expressions of the elements are provided and can be readily implemented into the commercial software with high computational efficiency.
[200] Ichimura, Tsuyoshi,Fujita, Kohei,Hori, Muneo ,等.Low-ordered Orthogonal Voxel Finite Element with INT8 Tensor Cores for GPU-based Explicit Elastic Wave Propagation Analysis[J].arXiv,2024,arXiv
摘要：Faster explicit elastic wavefield simulations are required for large and complex three-dimensional media using a structured finite element method. Such wavefield simulations are suitable for GPUs, which have exhibited improved computational performance in recent years, and the use of GPUs is expected to speed up such simulations. However, available computational performance on GPUs is typically not fully exploited, and the conventional method involves some numerical dispersion. Thus, in this paper, we propose an explicit structured-mesh wavefield simulation method that uses INT8 Tensor Cores and reduces numerical dispersion to speed up computation on GPUs. The proposed method was implemented for GPUs, and its performance was evaluated in a simulation experiment of a real-world problem. The results demonstrate that the proposed method is 17.0 times faster than the conventional method. © 2024, CC BY.