[1] 张金,张忠耀,张高 ,等.SPH-DEM-FEM流固耦合模型下泥石流冲击框架损伤评估[J].振动与冲击,2026,45 (6):141-153,163
摘要：泥石流作为高破坏性混合流体,其携带的块石对框架结构的冲击机制尚未得到充分研究。为揭示含块石泥石流冲击框架结构的动力响应与损伤机制,基于光滑粒子流体动力学-离散元法-有限元法(smoothed particle hydrodynamics-discrete element method-finite element method,SPH-DEM-FEM)耦合数值方法,构建流体-块石-结构的多耦合数值模型,模拟不同冲击速度和角度下框架结构的损伤过程,并结合两相溃坝试验来验证模型有效性。研究表明:泥石流冲击导致结构损伤经历“接触-扩散-反弹-堆积/冲击”四个阶段,当冲击速度超过6.00 m/s时,结构产生不可恢复损伤,且块石阻隔作用使流体上部冲击力大于下部,引发结构中部最先发生集中损伤;此外,冲击力峰值随速度和角度增大呈非线性增长,10.00 m/s与90°工况下框架柱底冲击力达497.17 kN,超过结构抗冲击承载力;最后,数值模拟与经验公式所得冲击力结果误差在13.95%~29.00%,数量级一致,验证了模型可靠性。研究结果可为泥石流高发区框架结构的抗冲击设计提供参考。
[2] 张洪伟,闫锡超,高师 ,等.基于DEM-FEM耦合的喷丸强化响应面模型构建及工艺参数影响分析[J].机械强度,2025,47 (3):67-74
摘要：为了模拟喷丸强化过程,实现喷丸强化效果快速预测,基于Abaqus软件采用离散元法-有限元法(Discrete Element Method-Finite Element Method,DEM-FEM)耦合建立随机多丸粒喷丸强化模型,并以TC4钛合金为研究对象,通过喷丸强化试验来验证耦合模型的准确性。采用Box-Behnken设计(Box-Behnken Design,BBD)法,针对弹丸大小、喷丸速度和喷丸覆盖率3个工艺参数设计了三因素三水平的喷丸仿真试验方案,采用仿真分析获得表面残余应力值及表面粗糙度值,并通过Design-Expert软件进行数值拟合,最终得到喷丸工艺参数与表面残余应力和表面粗糙度之间的函数模型,采用响应面法分析弹丸大小、喷丸速度、喷丸覆盖率三因素之间的交互作用以及对喷丸强化效果的影响规律。结果表明,响应面预测模型结果与仿真计算结果误差低于5%,所建立的响应面预测模型具有较高的近似精度和可靠性,利用此模型可实现喷丸强化效果的有效预测。
[3] Wenzhao Li,Xi Luan,Yibo Li ,等.Force/thermal prediction of lunar soil drilling based on DEM-FEM coupling method[J].Powder Technology,2026,470 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A DEM-FEM (discrete element method - finite element method) coupling method is proposed in this paper to simulate lunar soil sampling. The DEM and FEM are treated as two individual parts linked by the accumulated frictional work. In force calculation by DEM, the incremental filling technique is developed to shorten the calculation time and enable the deep sampling simulation of lunar soil. In thermal calculation by FEM, the radiation heat transfer, heat flux and heat conduction with lunar soil are embedded with corresponding subroutines. Meanwhile, the mathematical model of sampling variation with depth is derived. The results demonstrate that the simulation outcomes closely match the theoretical calculations and are well-suited for predicting the mechanical and thermal behavior of the drill in the lunar soil sampling process.
[4] Wang, Bao,Qi, Wen,Li, Xingyi ,等.DEM-FEM coupled simulation for PM-HIP: Mapping strategies, coupling architectures, verification and validation[J].AIP Advances,2026,16 (4),AIP Publishing
摘要：Powder metallurgy hot isostatic pressing (PM-HIP) is a near-net-shape consolidation process, in which the prediction of densification behavior and final geometry depends strongly on powder packing heterogeneity established during filling. Discrete element method-finite element method (DEM-FEM) coupled simulation has emerged as a practical framework for linking particle-scale packing to continuum-scale densification analysis. This Review consolidates DEM-FEM coupled simulation methodologies for PM-HIP, with an emphasis on mapping strategies, coupling architectures, and verification and validation practices. The reliability of predictions is shown to depend primarily on the exchanged variables, mapping resolution, and the treatment of non-matching discretizations. Sequential one-way coupling remains the most robust and widely adopted route for practical PM-HIP simulations. This Review provides a structured reference to support reliable and reproducible DEM-FEM workflows for PM-HIP.
[5] 牟政,李福林 .基于FEM-DEM耦合的盾构掘进参数对滚刀切削钢筋混凝土效果的影响研究[J].现代隧道技术,2025,62 (1):147-156
摘要：盾构切削钢筋混凝土桩基本质是滚刀与钢筋混凝土接触的瞬态动力学过程,文章基于有限元-离散元耦合模型,对盾构盘形滚刀切削钢筋混凝土桩进行三维瞬态动力分析。在有限元-离散元耦合模型中,混凝土的力学行为通过离散元描述,混凝土中钢筋的影响通过有限元模拟。并通过室内试验验证数值模拟结果的准确性和可靠性,结果表明模拟结果与试验数据具有良好的吻合性。同时,分析刀盘贯入度和刀盘转速对盘形滚刀切削性能的影响,给出了盾构机在切割钢筋混凝土桩基时合理的贯入度和刀盘转速以及掘进模式。
[6] 梁绍敏,冯云田,王志华 .月面手动插旗过程的离散元-有限元耦合分析[J].计算力学学报,2024,41 (4):666-673,688,Editorial Office of Chinese Journal of Computational Mechanics
摘要：在月球表面插入旗帜对人类探索宇宙具有重要意义.本文采用离散元G有限元耦合算法对手动插旗过程进行数值分析,首先,建立月壤的离散元模型、旗杆的有限元模型以及月壤与旗杆相互作用的离散元G有限元耦合模型;然后,对旗杆的结构进行优化设计以提高其稳固性;最后,提出三种不同的插旗方式并讨论不同插旗方式下旗杆的动力特性.研究结果表明,离散元G有限元耦合算法对月面插旗过程的模拟是有效的;底部尖锐度及稳定支架开叉角度的合理设计有利于增大旗杆的入壤深度和旗杆的稳固性;增大直接插入法中轴向力、提高敲击插入法中敲击力和敲击频率均可以增加旗杆的入壤深度;旋转插入法中旋转速度和旋转频率对插入过程影响较小.以上研究可为月面手动插旗提供有效的方案和理论参考.
[7] Haiwei Shi,Changcai Zhao,Bing Du ,等.Calibration of discrete element parameters and FEM-DEM coupling analysis for solid granules medium deep drawing forming[J].Powder Technology,2025,463 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To analyze the internal interactions of solid granules medium (SGM) and their interactions with sheet metal during the SGM deep drawing forming process, the discrete element method (DEM) is used for the SGM, and the finite element method (FEM) is employed for the sheet metal. A new FEM-DEM coupling method is developed based on the force conservation principle. To address the issues of circularity and deformation under high pressure present in the SGM, the rolling resistance linear (RRL) model is applied. A high-precision inversion method utilizing the back propagation neural network-particle swarm optimization (BP-PSO) algorithm is proposed to enhance the efficiency of DEM parameter calibration. The SGM deep drawing forming process is conducted and compared with the simulation results of the FEM-DEM coupling model, which confirms the accuracy of the coupling model. This model analyzes force transmission and flow of the granules, efficiently visualizing interactions during the forming process.
[8] Zhang, Haoyi,Ji, Shunying,Kanavalau, Aleh ,等.Ice loads on offshore wind turbine in sea ice based on DEM-FEM-SPH coupling model[J].Journal of Hydraulic Research,2026,64 (1):65-81,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：In cold regions, offshore wind turbines (OWT) are subjected to ice and water flow. The fracture and collision of ice are simulated with the discrete element method (DEM), the monopile response under ice loads is simulated with the finite element method (FEM), and the water flow is simulated with smoothed particle hydrodynamics (SPH). Thus, a coupled DEM-FEM-SPH model is established to simulate the interaction between ice, OWT and water flow. SPH-FEM coupling is validated with the simulation of elastic plate deformation under time-varying water pressure, which proves that the plate deformation and fluid behaviour agree with that in experimental conditions. Applications to a 3.3-MW OWT in the Bohai Sea are simulated. The influence of ice thickness and ice velocity on ice loads are studied. This study also highlights the accumulation of broken ice. This study provides a numerical approach for predicting OWT dynamics response in cold regions.
[9] 刘宁波,黄建,凌健 .基于FEM-DEM耦合的台阶边坡爆破过程数值模拟研究[J].路基工程,2026
摘要：基于有限元方法(FEM)与离散元方法(DEM)耦合方法,开发了一套用于模拟台阶边坡爆破过程的高精度数值模拟系统;通过结合有限元在连续介质变形模拟和离散元在岩石破裂、块体运动模拟方面的优势,系统研究了爆破振动、岩石抛掷距离及岩体损伤等关键响应。以某高速公路岩质高边坡爆破工程为例,将数值模拟结果与现场实测数据进行对比分析。结果表明:该FEM-DEM耦合模型能够准确反映爆破过程中岩体动态损伤演化与抛掷行为,模拟得到的振动峰值速度与抛掷距离与实测值吻合良好,验证了模型有效性与工程适用性。
[10] Xingjian Dong,Cheng Wang,Xinrong Tao ,等.Prediction of USP-induced gradient nanostructuring: A novel DEM-FEM coupling approach using probability distribution function[J].International Journal of Solids and Structures,2026,337 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Ultrasonic shot peening (USP) is an effective surface severe plastic deformation (SPD) technique for fabricating gradient nanostructured (GNS) materials. However, predicting the resultant gradient nanostructure remains challenging owing to the inherent randomness of multi-shot impacts. This study proposes a novel probability distribution function (PDF)-based coupling approach that integrates the discrete element method (DEM) and finite element method (FEM) to simulate the USP process and predict the gradient nanostructure in pure copper. The DEM simulation was initially validated against single-shot impact experiments, confirming its accuracy in capturing shot dynamics under ultrasonic excitation. Subsequently, the positions and velocities of multiple shots impacting the specimen, derived from DEM simulations, were statistically characterized using PDFs. These PDFs were incorporated into the FEM to construct a realistic finite element model. A physics-based constitutive model, which accounts for thermal activation, dislocation density evolution, the Hall–Petch effect, and dislocation drag, was implemented within this framework. The coupled model successfully predicted depth-dependent distributions of equivalent plastic strain, dislocation density, and dislocation cell size. The predicted gradient in dislocation density exhibited a direct correlation with microhardness profiles, showing good agreement with experimental measurements. Finally, the validated model was employed to systematically investigate the influences of key USP parameters, including ultrasonic vibration amplitude, shot diameter, USP time, and USP height, on the resultant gradient nanostructure. The proposed PDF-based DEM-FEM method provides an efficient and accurate numerical tool for optimizing USP processes aimed at fabricating gradient-nanostructured metallic materials.
[11] 刘宗兴,曹苗,盛家铖 ,等.基于SPH-DEM耦合的鸟撞风挡玻璃数值仿真研究[J].航空工程进展,2026,17 (1):108-115
摘要：玻璃类脆性材料被广泛用于飞机风挡结构,其位于飞机前部迎风面,易遭受鸟体撞击而碎裂。脆性的风挡玻璃碎裂参数测试困难,一般采用弹塑性本构模型及失效应变描述玻璃的受力变形及破坏,采用传统的有限元法(FEM)难以仿真鸟撞后风挡玻璃的细碎裂纹的扩展。基于碎裂问题数值计算的离散元法(DEM),通过试验数据标定有机玻璃碎裂的DEM微观参数,建立基于光滑粒子流体力学(SPH)-DEM耦合分析方法的鸟撞平板风挡玻璃数值仿真模型。结果表明:鸟体撞击作用下风挡玻璃的碎裂过程计算结果与鸟撞试验测试结果一致性良好,SPH-DEM耦合分析方法可以更加精确模拟鸟撞作用下风挡玻璃的碎裂,为鸟撞飞机风挡玻璃数值仿真提供了新的研究方法和思路。
[12] Wenqing Tian,Chengjian Zhang,Kun Cheng ,等.3D DEM-FEM coupling simulation for enhanced deformation prediction in hot isostatic pressing of a complex-shaped component[J].Journal of Materials Research and Technology,2025,39 :4318-4331,Elsevier Science
摘要：Hot isostatic pressing (HIP) is a manufacturing technique widely used in aerospace and other fields that applies high temperature and pressure to metal powders to achieve near-net-shape parts with large and complex structures. While numerical simulations such as the finite element method (FEM) can predict forming deviations, the non-uniform shrinkage of powders during the process requires further improvements to existing FEM models to accurately reflect the discrete nature and uneven distribution of particles. To address this issue, a new modelling approach has been developed that couples the discrete element method (DEM) with FEM by integrating local density data into the FEM model. The DEM model was first calibrated and validated by comparing with experimental results, and then used to simulate the filling and vibration of particles in the capsule of a Ti<sub>2</sub>AlNb part. The relative density distribution of particles in different regions of the DEM model was extracted. Subsequently, a Python script was developed to facilitate the automated assignment of these relative density data to the corresponding regions in the FEM model. The initial relative density distribution of powder material in the FEM model not only influenced the evolution of Young's modulus during deformation but also determined the final shrinkage extent of the component. The results demonstrated that the coupled DEM-FEM approach achieved a 45 % reduction in average deviation and notable improvements in dimensional accuracy at multiple characteristic positions, with a maximum improvement reaching 0.585 mm. This DEM-FEM coupling model represents a viable technique for HIP manufacturing processes and can be implemented for components with arbitrary designed geometries.
[13] Ruifeng Ni,Pengjie Zhang,Lida Che ,等.Research on improving the simulation accuracy of HIP near-net-shape forming by coupling DEM and FEM[J].Journal of Materials Research and Technology,2025,36 :949-962,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study enhances the simulation accuracy of hot isostatic pressing (HIP) near-net shaping for complex components by coupling the discrete element method (DEM) and finite element method (FEM). The powder filling process was simulated using DEM in EDEM software, considering the effects of vibration parameters (frequency and amplitude) on filling density. The DEM results were then integrated into FEM simulations in MSC. Marc to analyze the densification behavior during HIP. Two models were compared: Model 1 with uniform initial density distribution and Model 2 with non-uniform density distribution based on DEM results. The simulations were validated against experimental results from HIP processing of TA15 titanium alloy powder. The DEM simulation revealed that optimal filling density was achieved at a vibration frequency of 35 Hz and amplitude of 0.5 mm. The filling density in the “L" region of the double-stepped cylinder capsule was significantly lower than in other areas due to its complex geometry. The FEM simulations showed that Model 2 provided higher accuracy in predicting the final component shape and densification behavior compared to Model 1. The maximum relative density reached 97.89 % in Model 1 and 98.30 % in Model 2 after HIP, with Model 2 showing better agreement with experimental results in terms of relative density distribution. The coupling of DEM and FEM simulations effectively enhanced the accuracy of predicting powder filling and densification during HIP. Model 2 provided more realistic predictions of the final component properties, highlighting the importance of considering actual powder filling behavior in simulations. This approach can guide the design of capsule structures and HIP process parameters to achieve high-quality components with uniform mechanical properties.
[14] Shaomin Liang,Yuntian Feng,Zhihua Wang .Study on the safe landing of a crew module considering horizontal velocity using a DEM-FEM coupling algorithm[J].Advances in Space Research,2025,75 (3):3268-3283,Elsevier Science
摘要：Due to the influence of shallow wind and reverse thrust on the ground, the horizontal velocity of the crew module poses a threat to its safety during landing. To address this issue, the discrete element and finite element coupling algorithm is used to investigate the landing process of the crew module with horizontal velocity in this paper. Firstly, the discrete element model of the soil at the designated landing site and the finite element model of the crew module structure are established. Subsequently, the discrete element-finite element coupling algorithm of the interaction between the soil and the crew module is applied. The above model is used to analyze the influence of horizontal velocity on the crew module landing process in vertical and inclined landing. The results indicate that the horizontal velocity significantly affects the landing process of the crew module during vertical landing. Additionally, during inclined landing, the dynamic characteristics of the crew module are compared under three working conditions: the horizontal velocity direction is the same as the oblique direction of the crew module, the reverse direction and the vertical direction. When the horizontal velocity direction aligns with the oblique direction of the crew module, the influence of horizontal velocity on the landing process is relatively minor. However, when the horizontal velocity opposes the oblique direction of the crew module, it has a more substantial influence on the impact force and the displacement of the crew module. The research results provide valuable theoretical insights to ensure the safe landing of the crew module.
[15] 侯宏禹,张闯,裴悦涵 ,等.基于DEM-FEM耦合模型的质量流量对喷丸强化效果的影响[J].表面技术,2024,53 (17):186-195
摘要：目的提出一种将有限元(FEM)与离散元(DEM)相耦合的新方法,即通过定义关键字的方式在ABAQUS软件内实现DEM-FEM耦合功能,并应用此方法建立喷丸强化模型。方法将弹丸视为等直径刚体,利用刚体动力学模拟弹丸-弹丸和弹丸-靶材之间相互作用以及整个弹丸流。通过建立的DEM-FEM耦合喷丸强化模型研究质量流量对残余应力场和表面粗糙度的影响。结果质量流量对喷丸强化效果有显著影响,最大残余应力随质量流量的增加而减小,由2 kg/min时的–596.77 MPa下降到6 kg/min时的–581.91 MPa;表面残余应力随质量流量的增加先增大后减小,由2 kg/min时的–420.86 MPa增大到4 kg/min时的472.06 MPa,随后减小到6 kg/min时的–450.50 MPa;表面粗糙度Ra随质量流量的增加减小,由2 kg/min时的11.21μm减小到6 kg/min时的9.82μm。设计了喷丸强化实验,对质量流量2 kg/min的结果进行了验证。结论实测值与模拟值吻合较好,所建立的模型可以准确反映实际喷丸强化过程。质量流量对喷丸强化效果具有显著影响。
[16] Wang, Xiaoming,Shen, Zhengchang,Hu, Yonghui ,等.Dynamic Coupling Model of the Magnetic Separation Process Based on FEM, CFD, and DEM[J].Processes,2025,13 (5),MDPI
摘要：Magnetic separation is an important method in the processing process, and its essence is the targeted dispersion of the mineral processing slurry pulp in the magnetic field space. The slurry is a complex multiphase fluid system with continuous phase carrying a large number of discrete phase particles, in which the magnetic particles agglomerate, migrate, and disperse under the dominance of magnetic force. In this process, there is nonlinear and unstable dynamic coupling between the continuous phase (liquid) and the discrete phase (solid particles) and between the discrete phases. In this paper, a dynamic cyclic multi-dipole magnetic moment algorithm with a higher calculation accuracy is innovatively proposed to calculate the magnetic interaction force between particles. Moreover, the P-E magnetization model suitable for a two-dimensional uniform magnetic field is further improved and optimized to make it applicable to a three-dimensional gradient magnetic field. Finally, based on the coupling of the Finite Element Method (FEM), Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD), and Discrete Element Method (DEM), a dynamic coupling model capable of accurately simulating the magnetic separation process is developed. This model can be used to study the separation behavior of particles under a multiphase flow and multi-force field and to explore the motion behavior of magnetic particles.
[17] Shi, Haiwei,Zhao, Changcai,Du, Bing ,等.Multiscale analysis of solid granules bulging of aluminum alloy four-way tube process via coupling FEM-DEM simulation[J].Scientific Reports,2025,15 (1):1015-1037,NATURE PORTFOLIO
摘要：This study introduces a novel solid granules bulging process for aluminum alloy four-way tubes, aiming to enhance forming precision and minimize defects in internal high-pressure forming. A three-dimensional finite element method-discrete element method coupling model (FEM-DEM coupling model), based on the uniform load distribution method, is developed to analyze the bulging process under three forming modes-free bulging, axial compression bulging, and composite bulging-to determine the optimal scheme. The model captures the influence of the solid granules medium (SGM) on material behavior at both mesoscopic and macroscopic scales. Three-dimensional contact distribution and normal contact force histograms illustrate force transmission changes within granules during bulging. Experimental validation shows a maximum deviation of 12.7% between simulated and measured wall thickness, confirming the accuracy of the model and consistency with deformation patterns.
[18] Wang, Xiaoming,Hu, Yonghui,Hao, Yefei ,等.Simulation of Dynamic Particle Trapping and Accumulation in HGMS Based on FEM-CFD-DEM Coupling Approach[J].Processes,2025,13 (8),MDPI
摘要：High-gradient magnetic separation (HGMS) is a conventional and effective method for processing weak magnetic materials. A multi-field dynamic coupling simulation method integrating the Finite Element Method (FEM), Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD), and the Discrete Element Method (DEM) was employed to investigate the separation behavior in HGMS. The dynamic deposition process of magnetic particles under the interactions of magnetic fields, fluid flow fields, and particle-particle forces was simulated using a two-way fluid-solid coupling algorithm based on the FEM-CFD-DEM coupling approach. Experimental results demonstrated that the particle deposition profiles predicted by the double-wire medium model were in good agreement with the measured data. The research findings indicated that the separation process could be divided into three distinct stages-the adsorption stage, the closure stage, and the clogging stage-each characterized by unique dynamic behaviors and pressure-drop evolution patterns. Additionally, the effects of key parameters such as the feeding velocity and medium filling ratio on the separation process were analyzed, providing theoretical foundations and technical support for the optimization of HGMS processes and the enhancement of separation efficiency.
[19] Jung-Wook Park,Chan-Hee Park,Eui-Seob Park ,等.A novel FEM–DEM coupling methodology for hydro-mechanical modeling in fractured geological media[J].International Journal of Rock Mechanics and Mining Sciences,2025,196 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study presents the development, verification, and validation of a novel coupling methodology for simulating coupled hydro-mechanical (HM) processes in fractured geological media. The proposed numerical approach, OGS–3DEC, integrates the finite element method-based OpenGeoSys (OGS) for fluid flow and the discrete element code 3DEC for mechanical deformation. These two simulators are linked through a hierarchical sequential coupling scheme that enables two-way data exchange. This approach modifies the effective stress in the fractured medium through evolving pore pressure while updating permeability and porosity based on stress and deformation. The methodology was verified through benchmark tests including one-dimensional consolidation in a porous matrix, radial fluid flow along a fracture plane, and fluid injection-induced fracture opening and slip. The results demonstrated excellent agreement with analytical solutions. Additionally, the model was validated against field-scale data from a fault reactivation experiment at the Mont Terri Rock Laboratory, with simulated pressures, flow rates, and displacements closely matching observed values. The OGS-3DEC simulator provides a reliable and efficient tool for modeling the HM behavior of fractured rock masses, with applications in geotechnical and subsurface engineering.
[20] 杨硕,闫军,刘志勇 .基于DEM-FEM耦合的环锤式破碎机反击板可靠性分析[J].机械设计,2024,41 (7):114-120
摘要：由于环锤式破碎机破碎物料的过程是一个极其复杂多变的过程,且与反击板所受的碰撞力是不连续、无规则的,因此,无法使用公式推导或使用单一软件对反击板受力进行计算,为了能够更好地确定破碎机破碎过程中反击板的载荷大小、分布和寿命,文中提出了一种基于离散元(DEM)和有限元(FEM)耦合计算的环锤式破碎机反击板可靠性分析方法,通过EDEM建立环锤式破碎机破碎物料仿真过程,并提取出破碎过程中反击板的载荷分布,与ANSYS Workbench建立耦合计算通道,计算得到在正常工作参数下反击板的受力大小和位置,在此基础上采用n Code Design Life疲劳分析软件对反击板进行寿命分析,得到反击板的受力云图和损伤云图,研究转子转速、反击板倾角、转子与筛板距离等不同因素下对反击板可靠性的影响,结果表明:转子转速为1000 r∕min时反击板的最大受力值为247.9 MPa、反击板角度为60°时应力最大值为206.48 MPa、转子与筛板距离为530 mm时受力最大值为268.37 MPa。
[21] Manon Voisin-Leprince,Joaquin Garcia-Suarez,Guillaume Anciaux ,等.Two-scale concurrent simulations for crack propagation using FEM–DEM bridging coupling[J].Computational Particle Mechanics,2024,11 (5):2235-2243,Elsevier Science
摘要：The Discrete element method (DEM) is a robust numerical tool for simulating crack propagation and wear in granular materials. However, the computational cost associated with DEM hinders its applicability to large domains. To address this limitation, we employ DEM to model regions experiencing crack propagation and wear, and utilize the finite element method (FEM) to model regions experiencing small deformation, thus reducing the computational burden. The two domains are linked using a FEM–DEM coupling, which considers an overlapping region where the deformation of the two domains is reconciled. We employ a “strong coupling” formulation, in which each DEM particle in the overlapping region is constrained to an equivalent position obtained by nodal interpolation in the finite element. While the coupling method has been proved capable of handling propagation of small-amplitude waves between domains, we examine in this paper its accuracy to efficiently model for material failure events. We investigate two cases of material failure in the DEM region: the first one involves mode I crack propagation, and the second one focuses on rough surfaces' shearing leading to debris creation. For each, we consider several DEM domain sizes, representing different distances between the coupling region and the DEM undergoing inelasticity and fracture. The accuracy of the coupling approach is evaluated by comparing it with a pure DEM simulation, and the results demonstrate its effectiveness in accurately capturing the behavior of the pure DEM, regardless of the placement of the coupling region.
[22] Nie, Jiayan,Mou, Yi,Bu, Jiantao ,等.A FEM-DEM Coupling Analysis on Bearing Capacity of Sandy Soil Foundation Considering Fabric Anisotropy[J].International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics,2025,49 (3):931-947,WILEY
摘要：With the acceleration of urbanization, the stability of the foundation is being more crucial to the performance and service of the superstructure. As our understanding of the factors influencing soil's physical and mechanical behavior deepens, it becomes increasingly challenging for traditional limit equilibrium and limit analysis methods to accurately consider the complex factors affecting foundation stability, such as initial fabric anisotropy caused by the particle morphology and geological deposition in sand. Although some scholars had used advanced constitutive models in the finite element method (FEM) to investigate the influence of initial fabric anisotropy on mechanical responses of foundations, this approach failed to reveal the microscopic information underlying the shear failure of sandy soil foundations. In this study, the influence of the initial fabric anisotropy of sandy soil on the ultimate bearing capacity and shear failure mode of shallow foundation is studied using the hierarchical FEM and discrete element method (DEM) coupling analysis method. Four representative volume elements (RVEs) with varying initial bedding plane angles are constructed in DEM for characterizing different initial fabric anisotropies, and the specific stress-strain information of DEM RVEs is directly passed into the corresponding Gauss points in FEM to replace the conventional constitutive model. Numerical results show that the initial fabric anisotropy affects the ultimate bearing capacity and shear failure mode of shallow foundations significantly, and the corresponding micromechanical behaviors at different local Gauss points have been explored, which advances our understanding of the micromechanisms underlying the progressive shear failure of sandy soil foundations significantly.
[23] 陈勇,姚昌荣,周迅 ,等.基于DEM-FEM耦合方法的碎屑流对桥墩最大冲击力的影响因素研究[J].自然灾害学报,2024,33 (2):65-74
摘要：碎屑流是我国山区最危险的地质灾害之一,山区桥墩常受到碎屑流冲击而开裂、倾斜甚至倒塌,给山区桥梁建设、运营带来严重的安全隐患。采用离散元方法(discrete element method,DEM)和有限元方法(finite element method,FEM)耦合的三维数值模拟方法模拟了碎屑流对双柱式桥墩的冲击效应,并结合斜槽试验,验证了耦合方法的准确性,进一步分析了碎屑流冲击坡度、距离和体积密度对桥墩冲击力的影响规律。结果表明,最大冲击力与碎屑流冲击坡度、距离和体积密度分别呈幂函数(指数大于1)、幂函数(指数小于1)和线性正相关。冲击坡度、距离和体积密度对最大冲击力的敏感度值分别为3.012、0.202、0.804,在桥梁碎屑流灾害防治时需重视冲击坡度和体积密度的影响。将冲击力的数值模拟值与流体动力学模型预测值对比分析表明,流体动力学模型理论公式能较好地预测桥墩所受的最大冲击力,最大预测误差低于23.6%。相关研究结果可为山区桥梁碎屑流灾害防治与设计提供一定的参考依据。
[24] Zhang, Hongwei,Yan, Xichao,Gao, Shi ,等.Construction of shot peening enhanced response surface model based on DEM-FEM coupling and the influence analysis of process parameter[J].机械强度,2025,47 (3):67-74,Chinese Mechanical Engineering Society
摘要：In order to simulate the shot peening process and realize the rapid prediction of the shot peening effect, a random multi-shot pellet shot peening strengthening model was established based on Abaqus software using the discrete element method-finite element method (DEM-FEM) coupling, and the TC4 titanium alloy was used as the research object to carry out the shot peening strengthening test to verify the accuracy of the coupling model. The Box-Behnken design (BBD) method was used to design a three-factor and three-level shot peening simulation test scheme for the three process parameters of projectile size, shot peening speed and shot peening coverage. The surface residual stress value and surface roughness value were obtained by simulation analysis, and the numerical fitting was carried out by Design-Expert software. Finally, the function models between the shot peening process parameters and the surface residual stress or surface roughness were obtained, the interaction between the three factors of projectile size,shot peening speed and shot peening coverage was analyzed by the response surface method, and the influence law of shot peening strengthening effect was analyzed. The results show that the error between the results of the response surface prediction model and the simulation calculation results is less than 5%, the established response surface prediction model has high approximate accuracy and reliability,and the effective prediction of shot peening effect can be achieved by using this model. © 2025 Chinese Mechanical Engineering Society. All rights reserved.
[25] 胡子恬,尹辉俊,李明 .基于离散元与有限元耦合的料斗衬板磨损分析[J].广西科技大学学报,2024,35 (3):8-15,40
摘要：针对转运系统转载物料过程中料斗衬板的磨损影响运输效率的问题,改用新型钢基陶瓷复合衬板来代替传统耐磨钢,采用离散元法(distinct element method,DEM)描述颗粒物料运动过程,通过Archard磨损模型分析预测不同工况条件下衬板磨损规律,并通过磨损规律和磨损特征验证了磨损模型的合理性。基于DEM的有限元法(finite element method,FEM)耦合方法分析了衬板应力与变形特性。研究结果表明:料斗衬板的最大磨损深度随颗粒度增大而减小,随传送带带速、衬板安装高度、衬板安装倾角的增大而增大。结合实际来看,衬板在粒径25mm、带速2.8m/s、高度3000mm、角度60°的工况下磨损最小。铁矿石散料对衬板的摩擦和冲击作用造成的应力较大的位置主要集中在衬板连接的螺栓孔周围,磨损最严重的位置多为颗粒与衬板优先接触区域,因此,为了降低应力集中,应该在衬板连接处加强螺栓孔的强度并进行圆角设计。
[26] 郭磊,田文卿,陈辉 ,等.粉末热等静压离散元-有限元耦合模拟与形变预测[J].机械工程学报,2025,61 (16):83-91
摘要：粉末热等静压(Hot isostatic pressing, HIP)过程中,不均匀的粉末初始密度分布会引起包套和零件的不均匀收缩。粉末初始相对密度信息对提高数值模拟中的零件变形预测精度至关重要。介绍一种新的粉末热等静压工艺的数值模拟方法,将离散元填粉结果中的相对密度信息原位添加至有限元模型中进行形变模拟。该方法能够在有限元模型中耦合离散元粉末相对密度信息,并提高轮廓预测的准确性。比较离散元-有限元耦合模型、单一有限元模型的轮廓预测精度,证明耦合模型预测精度更高,局部误差最多减小0.71 mm。通过改进焊接位置的几何轮廓和材料属性,可以进一步提高模拟精度。离散元-有限元耦合模型为粉末热等静压提供了一种更加准确的预测方法,并且在圆柱形包套上进行了规律性探索,有望对复杂零件的模拟提供新思路。
[27] Mu, Zheng,Li, Fulin .Study on the Effect of Shield Tunnelling Parameters on Cutting Performance of Reinforced Concrete Based on FEM-DEM Coupling Method[J].现代隧道技术,2025,62 (1):147-156,Editorial By Modern Tunnelling Technology
摘要：The shield cutting reinforced concrete piles involves a transient dynamic process between the disc cutter and the reinforced concrete. This study uses a Finite Element Method (FEM) and Discrete Element Method (DEM) coupled model to perform a three-dimensional transient dynamic analysis of the shield disc cutter cutting reinforced concrete piles. In the FEM-DEM coupled model, the mechanical behavior of concrete is described using DEM, while the effect of rebar in the concrete is simulated with FEM. The accuracy and reliability of the numerical simulation results were verified by laboratory tests, showing a good agreement between the simulation results and experimental data. Additionally, the study analyzes the impact of shield machine penetration and cutterhead rotational speed on the cutting performance of the disc cutter, providing optimal penetration, cutterhead rotational speed, and tunnelling mode for cutting reinforced concrete piles. © 2025 Editorial By Modern Tunnelling Technology. All rights reserved.
[28] Xiangwu Xiao,Mingzuo Geng,Ruitao Peng ,等.Mitigating ceramic tool wear in GH4169 machining through pre-stressed cutting: insights from DEM-FEM coupling[J].Engineering Failure Analysis,2025,182 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Ceramic cutting tools suffer from severe accelerated wear during the machining of nickel-based superalloys, which considerably compromises machining efficiency and tool life. Theoretically, pre-stressed cutting technology offers an efficient and convenient method for regulating cutting forces during the machining process. To investigate the mechanism by which pre-stressed cutting suppresses wear in ceramic tools, this study employs a coupled Discrete Element Method-Finite Element Method (DEM-FEM) modeling approach to simulate crack propagation and wear evolution in Sialon ceramic tools under varying cutting parameters and pre-stress conditions. Simulation results are rigorously correlated with experimental measurements to validate predictive accuracy. Finally, a novel pre-stressed loading device for ring parts is developed to perform a pre-stressed cutting experiment. The results demonstrate that applying pre-stress significantly reduces both cutting forces and tool wear: as the pre-stress increased from 0 MPa to 300 MPa, the cutting force decreased from 478.6 N to 381.1 N, accompanied by a notable reduction in both micro-crack propagation and wear rate. In conclusion, pre-stressed cutting effectively mitigates tool wear by improving the mechanical state of the tool, thereby providing both theoretical insights and practical guidance for enhancing the performance of ceramic tools in machining superalloys.
[29] Junmu Wang,Xiekang Wang,Qiang Yao ,等.Mechanism of bed scour erosion in narrow and steep debris-flow channels based on SPH–DEM–FEM coupling[J].Engineering Geology,2025,354 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Debris flows are a powerful and devastating form of geological hazards. Notable deep and lateral erosion of the channel bed occurs during debris-flow transport. Narrow and steep debris-flow channels cause more severe bed scour erosion. Moreover, the impact erosion caused by the transition from a rigid to an erodible bed owing to debris flows is highly destructive. Clarifying the mechanism of scour erosion is important for research on the erosion rate and estimation of the sediment volume transported by debris flows. Therefore, in this paper, we conduct a flume test of debris flows propagating over an erodible bed. Moreover, we use numerical simulation to reconstruct the flume test. The simulation is validated based on the parameters obtained from the flume test. Based on the calibrated model, we reveal the erosion process between the debris flows and channel materials. The simulation is based on a coupled approach involving smoothed particle hydrodynamics (SPH), discrete element method (DEM), and finite element method (FEM). Based on both the simulation and test results, an erosion resistance factor (ERF) is proposed to quantify the scour erosion resistance of bed particles. Utilizing the definitions of erosion rate, we explore the relationship between ERF and erosion rate. The results demonstrate that ERF can effectively describe the erosion process. A method of calculating the maximum erosion depth is derived using ERF. The error between calculated results and experimental results of the maximum erosion depth is &lt;5 %.
[30] Zhang, Jin,Zhang, Zhongyao,Zhang, Gao ,等.Damage assessment of the debris flow impact on frame structures based on a SPH-DEM-FEM fluid-solid coupling model[J].振动与冲击,2026,45 (6):141-153and163,Chinese Vibration Engineering Society
摘要：As a highly destructive mixed fluid, the impact mechanism of the block-carrying debris flow on the frame structure has not been fully studied. In order to reveal the dynamic response and damage mechanism of the frame structure impacted by block-containing debris flow, a multi-coupled numerical model of slurry-block-structure was constructed based on the coupled numerical method of smoothed particle hydrodynamics - discrete element method - finite element method (SPH-DEM-FEM), the damage process of the frame structure under different impact velocities and angles was simulated, and the model validity was verified by combining with the two-phase dam failure test. The study shows that the structural damage caused by the impact of debris flow goes through the four stages of "contact-diffusion-rebound-accumulation/ impact", and when the impact velocity exceeds 6. 00 m/s, the structure generates irrecoverable damage. The blocks effect makes the impact force of the slurry in the upper part of the slurry body larger than that in the lower part, which triggers the central part of the structure to be the first to experience centralized damage. Moreover, the peak impact force increases with the increase of velocity and angle in a non-linear manner. In addition, the peak impact force increases nonlinearly with the velocity and angle, and the impact force at the bottom of the frame column reaches 497. 17 kN under 10.00 m/s and 90° conditions, which exceeds the structural impact bearing capacity. Finally, the error between numerical simulation and empirical formulae of the impact force results is in the range of 13.95% -29.00%, which is consistent in the order of magnitude, and the reliability of the model was verified. The research findings provide a reference for the impact-resistant design of frame structures in areas prone to debris flows. © 2026 Chinese Vibration Engineering Society. All rights reserved.
[31] 张青松,郑中原,廖庆喜 ,等.农业工程领域耦合仿真技术应用现状与展望[J].农业机械学报,2025,56 (7):20-37,149,Chinese Society of Agricultural Machinery
摘要：耦合仿真技术作为一种先进的数值仿真方法,能将多个独立的物理场或物理现象的仿真模型结合,实现不同领域或不同物理学模型的数值仿真方法相互结合,彼此交换信息并相互影响,在农业工程领域展现出广阔的应用前景,为现代农业装备的数字化与智能化设计提供了新途径。为了系统总结耦合仿真技术在农业工程领域的应用现状和分析该技术的未来发展趋势,概述了耦合仿真技术的基本原理、仿真流程与类型以及相关数值模拟技术与软件,梳理了离散元-结构有限元耦合、离散元-计算流体力学耦合、离散元-多体动力学耦合、连续介质流固耦合以及刚柔耦合在农业工程领域的应用实例。同时,结合耦合仿真技术的应用现状,分析了目前该技术在模型构建与精确性、算法与计算资源、数据集成与处理、仿真软件设计和标准化等方面存在的问题,提出了耦合仿真技术应用发展趋势:多尺度建模与智能验证体系、高性能算法与算力、数据治理与交互模式智能化、标准化建设以及智能融合与场景扩展等,为耦合仿真技术在农业工程领域进一步应用发展提供参考。
[32] 霍子豪,张仕林,胡卸文 ,等.基于固液耦合的滑坡碎屑流侵蚀流化机理研究[J].水文地质工程地质,2025,52 (2):138-149,Editorial Office of Hydrogeology and Engineering
摘要：干燥的滑坡碎屑流在动力传递过程中,往往会在坡面或者沟道内,与松散、高含水基底物质发生剧烈动力侵蚀作用,导致碎屑流流动规模急剧增加,对重要工程和人员生命产生巨大威胁。同时,随着间隙流体和固体颗粒被夹带汇入碎屑流底部,两者发生物质交换,使得流动从单相转变为固液两相状态,从而对碎屑流的流变力学行为产生重要影响。然而,目前对碎屑流流化机理研究甚少。基于光滑粒子流-离散单元-有限元耦合(SPH-DEM-FEM)理论,在大型物理模型试验基础上,针对不同含水率工况,围绕干燥碎屑流与基底物质的复杂动力学过程,开展耦合数值模拟研究。结果表明:碎屑流前缘与基底接触作用主要表现为冲切破坏和犁切作用,接触面以剪切磨蚀为主,随基底应力和孔隙水压力增加,碎屑流与含水物质裹挟混合,并逐渐表现出流态化特征;侵蚀区在碎屑流冲击加载作用下,基底应力出现了“超前波动”的现象,前缘应力因碎屑流冲切作用表现为急剧升高的趋势,而侵蚀区中部基底应力因颗粒的飞跃,呈现幅度小、持续久的抛物曲线,后缘基底应力表现为峰值较前缘降低的曲线;随着基底物质由干燥工况逐渐向非饱和状态转变,接触面剪应力和含水率呈正相关趋势,基底侵蚀率、碎屑流冲击距离和最终堆积厚度随含水率呈现抛物线状相关关系。研究结果对碎屑流流化机理进行了探讨,并为类似机理研究提供了有效科学思路。
[33] 周陈炎,张佳宁,陈玲 .风冰耦合下的碎冰区海上风机疲劳损伤分析[J].机械设计与制造,2025,414 (8):31-35
摘要：疲劳破坏是海上风机结构失效的主要模式之一,而高纬度海域由于存在海冰灾害,必须考虑冰载荷对风机结构的影响。以带抗冰锥体的5MW单桩式风机为对象,建立了一种风冰联合作用下的耦合数值模型。首先,根据叶素-动量(BEM)理论计算出风载荷时历。基于计算流体力学-离散元的耦合方法(CFD-DEM)构建出数值碎冰池,模拟出风机与碎冰之间的相互作用力。将风、冰载荷加载到风机有限元模型上进行瞬态动力学分析,获得各疲劳子工况下的热点应力。最后,根据S-N曲线的时域法计算得到评估位置的总疲劳损伤。结果表明:风速与结构疲劳损伤呈现正相关关系,但在切入风速和切出风速附近损伤增长率平缓。结构疲劳损伤对海冰漂速的敏感度与海冰密集度有关。风、冰载荷之间并不是相互独立,两者相互影响。本方法可为寒区风机的疲劳损伤评估提供一定的参考。
[34] Zhang, Xiaoyong,Lv, Linhai,Xu, Meijuan ,等.Investigation of Compensated Foundation Settlement Mechanism Based on FEM-DEM Coupling Method[J].Revista Internacional de Métodos Numéricos para Cálculo y Diseño en Ingeniería,2026,42 (1),SCIPEDIA S L
摘要：The application of compensated foundations is common in engineering, but significant settlements often occur during the application process. A foundation pit model supported by a rigid retaining wall was established based on the Finite Element Method-Discrete Element Method (FEM-DEM), and a cantilevered layer-by-layer excavation process was simulated. A rolling resistance linear model was used to simulate the sand, while a variable particle size method was adopted to establish the foundation model. It is shown that during the excavation process of the foundation pit, the stress of the sand at the pit bottom gradually decreases, and the displacement of the soil changes gradually from settlement to uplift as one moves from behind the retaining wall to the bottom of the foundation pit. Moreover, the porosity of the sand at the pit bottom gradually increases. As a result, the strength of the uplifted sand at the pit bottom decreases due to over-excavation during the foundation pit excavation stage. The uplifted sand is finally excavated during the site leveling stage, resulting in a further decrease in the strength of the sand at the pit bottom. Finally, an inverted arch bottom plate structure is proposed to mitigate the over-excavation settlement of the compensated foundation.
[35] Kai Zhou,Daoxin Liu,Kaifa Fan ,等.A sequential DEM-FEM coupling method to predict the ultrasonic shot peening of fir-tree shaped grooves in aero-engine turbine disk[J].Journal of Manufacturing Processes,2024,130 :48-57,Elsevier Science
摘要：Ultrasonic shot peeing (USP) is a random and uniform peening process that has advantage to strengthen the complex surface of fir-tree shaped groove. However, due to the complexity of the groove geometry, it is difficult to accurately predict the shot dynamics and surface integrity along the profile during USP treatment. In this paper, a coupled discrete element method (DEM) and finite element method (FEM) has been established to predict the ultrasonic shot peening process of the fir tree shaped groove. DEM simulation model is established with a real groove to obtain the velocity field of the shots. The shot dynamic field is coupled as an input to the FEM model to obtain the surface integrity. The USP experiment verifies that the proposed coupled method can predict the surface integrity of grooves. The compressive residual stress (CRS), maximum CRS, and roughness of each region obtained in the DEM-DEM model are relatively uniform (fluctuating within ±60 MPa). Further, the roughness of each area of the groove is below Ra0.6 μm, and the values is closely corresponded to the velocity field of the shot impact. This study provides an effective method and potential application in uniform surface strengthening of complex components. © 2024 The Society of Manufacturing Engineers
[36] 李佟,金先龙,王小卫 ,等.基于重叠边界的有限元与离散元耦合异步长并行计算方法[J].农业机械学报,2023,54 (6):419-426
摘要：为了减少有限元和离散元耦合领域问题的计算时间,本文建立了有限元-离散元耦合异步长并行计算方法。整个计算模型分为有限元和离散元两类计算区域,根据每个子域单元特性选择合适的积分时间步长。每个子分区均采用显式时间积分格式进行求解,采用重叠边界法处理边界耦合问题,不涉及子循环过程的插值和截断过程。数值算例表明该方法在保证高精度的同时有效降低了计算时间。
[37] Voisin-Leprince, Manon,Garcia-Suarez, Joaquin,Anciaux, Guillaume ,等.Finite element method-discrete element method bridging coupling for the modeling of gouge[J].International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering,2023,124 (6):1474-1488,WILEY
摘要：We discuss the multiscale modeling of a granular material trapped between continuum elastic domains. The amorphous granular region, usually termed "gouge, " is under high confinement pressure, to represent the loading of faults at depth. We model the granularity of gouge using the discrete element method (DEM), while the elastic regions surrounding it are represented with two continuum domains modeled with the finite element method (FEM). We resort to a concurrent coupling of the discrete and continuum domains for a proper transmission of waves between the discrete and continuum domains. The confinement pressure results in the appearance of a new kind of ghost forces, which we address via two different overlapping coupling strategies. The first one is a generalization to granular materials of the bridging method, which was originally introduced to couple continuum domains to regular atomic lattices. This method imposes a strong formulation for the Lagrange constraints at the coupling interface. The second strategy considers a weak formulation. Different DEM samples sizes are tested in order to determine at which scale a convergence of the elastic properties is reached. This scale sets the minimal mesh element size in the DEM/FEM interface necessary to avoid undesirable effects due to an elastic properties mismatch. Then, the two DEM/FEM strategies are compared for a system initially at equilibrium. While the performance of both strategies is adequate, we show that the strong coupling is the most stable one as it generates the least spurious numerical noise. Finally, as a practical example for the strong coupling approach, we analyze the propagation of pressure and shear waves through the FEM/DEM interface and discuss dispersion as function of the incoming wave frequency.
[38] Xu, Ningning,Wang, Xinwen,Lin, Dongdong ,等.Numerical Simulation and Optimization of Screening Process for Vibrating Flip-Flow Screen Based on Discrete Element Method-Finite Element Method-Multi-Body Dynamics Coupling Method[J].Minerals,2024,14 (3),MDPI
摘要：Vibrating flip-flow screens are widely employed in the deep screening processes of coal washing, solid waste treatment, metallurgy, and other fields, playing a crucial role in enhancing product quality and production efficiency. The screen surface and material movement of vibrating flip-flow screens are highly complex, and there is currently insufficient understanding of their screening mechanism, limiting further optimization and application. In this paper, the Discrete Element Method (DEM), Finite Element Method (FEM), and Multi-Body Dynamics (MBD) were integrated to establish a numerical coupling model for vibrating flip-flow screens, considering material loads, screen surface deformation, and screen machine dynamics. The Response Surface Method was utilized to analyze the significant impact of relative amplitude, tension amount, amplitude of driving screen frame, vibration frequency, and screen surface inclination on screening efficiency and material velocity. The results indicate that the most significant factor influencing the screening of flip-flow screens is the screen surface inclination. Based on a BP neural network, a five-degree-of-freedom inclination surrogate model for flip-flow screens was established. The whale algorithm was employed for multi-objective optimization of the surrogate model, resulting in a screen surface inclination distribution that meets the requirements of different operating conditions.
[39] Peng, Yu,Liu, Bolong,Wang, Gang ,等.Analyses of the Suction Anchor-Sandy Soil Interactions under Slidable Pulling Action Using DEM-FEM Coupling Method: The Interface Friction Effect[J].Journal of Marine Science and Engineering,2024,12 (4),MDPI
摘要：The microscale mechanisms underlying the suction anchor-sandy soil interaction under slidable pulling actions of mooring lines remain poorly understood. This technical note addresses this knowledge gap by investigating the suction anchor-sandy soil interaction from micro to macro, with a particular emphasis on the effect of interface friction. The discrete element method (DEM) was utilized to simulate the sandy soil, while the finite element method (FEM) was employed to model the suction anchors. The peak pulling forces in numerical simulations were verified by centrifuge test results. The research findings highlight the significant influence of interface friction on the pulling force-displacement curves, as it affects the patterns of suction anchor-sandy soil interactions. Furthermore, clear relationships were established between the magnitude of interface friction, rotation angle, and pullout displacement of suction anchors. By examining the macro-to-micro behaviors of suction anchor-sandy soil interactions, this study concludes with a comprehensive understanding of failure patterns and their key characteristics under different interface friction conditions. The findings proved that the interface friction not only influences the anti-pullout capacity but also changes the failure patterns of suction anchor-soil interactions in marine engineering.
[40] 华阳,葛建立,汤鹏扬 ,等.冲击载荷作用下座钣与卵石炮位耦合特性仿真研究[J].火炮发射与控制学报,2023,44 (5):14-21,39
摘要：卵石炮位是考核迫击炮作战性能的重要工况之一,卵石颗粒是一种离散介质,具有连续性特点的有限元网格模拟冲击载荷作用下卵石的运动具有很大的难度。基于有限元与离散元(FEM-DEM)耦合的方法,提出了一种迫击炮在卵石炮位射击的数值模拟方法。建立了具有连续介质特性的迫击炮全炮有限元模型及具有离散介质特性的卵石离散元模型,实现两者的有限元-离散元耦合建模;对整体模型进行重力作用下的密实计算;研究了相同冲击载荷工况下座钣在不同颗粒直径卵石炮位的动态特性,仿真结果与测试值吻合较好。研究表明:在冲击载荷作用下,座钣在卵石炮位上会经历后坐、复进和反跳3个过程,座钣后方的表层卵石颗粒会在座钣的撞击下向后上方飞溅;座钣后侧面筋板受力状况比较恶劣,且随卵石颗粒直径的增大,受力数值和分散程度增大,座钣位移也随卵石颗粒直径的增大而增大。该研究为迫击炮在卵石阵地上发射时座钣的动态特性计算和座钣结构优化设计提供了重要的理论参考价值。
[41] Meng, Donglin,Lei, Wenkai,Han, Jingjing ,等.Research on the Effects of Pit Excavation on Adjacent Existing Subway Tunnel Structures Based on the FEM-DEM Coupling Method[J].Revista Internacional de Métodos Numéricos para Cálculo y Diseño en Ingeniería,2024,40 (3),SCIPEDIA S L
摘要：With the swift advancement of underground space development, large deep excavation projects above subway stations are becoming more common. This study employs the Finite element method-Discrete element method (FEM-DEM) coupling method to examine the effects of excavation on the structure of nearby subway tunnels. First, the flexible triaxial compression test was conducted using the FEM-DEM coupling method to acquire the macroscopic mechanical characteristics of various soil layers. Based on this, the ground particle model was developed using the particle size scaling method, the underground continuous wall support was constructed via the FEM-DEM coupling method, and the tunnel model was established using particles arranged circularly. The study shows that with the excavation, the particles at the bottom of the foundation start to heave upward, with the maximum uplift displacement being approximately 10 mm. Throughout the excavation process, substantial changes occur in the contact force chain within the pit, with notable stress release at the pit bottom. Moreover, the porosity at the pit bottom gradually increases, and the vertical stress decreases;the stress decreased by 75% compared to before excavation, primarily due to stress release during excavation. Lastly, a focused analysis was conducted on the tunnel deformation during excavation. Throughout the foundation pit excavation, the tunnel's displacement mainly took place within the excavation area, and its vertical displacement increased as the excavation depth increased, with a maximum displacement of approximately 0.5 mm. Analysis of particle displacement at various locations in the tunnel revealed that particles closest to the foundation pit bottom experienced the greatest displacement, whereas those farther away had relatively smaller displacements. The findings offer crucial theoretical support for the design and implementation of excavation projects.
[42] Haitao Ge,Juan Carlos Quezada,Vincent Le Houerou ,等.Three-dimensional FEM–DEM coupling simulation for analysis of asphalt mixture responses under rolling tire loads[J].Construction and Building Materials,2023,369 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：As traffic grows by leaps and bounds, deterioration of asphalt surface layers emerges as the primary cause of road network costs. A deep understanding of the tire–pavement interaction is essential for optimizing the surface design of asphalt pavements in the context of aging infrastructure and limited maintenance resources. Most of the current tire–pavement interaction studies have been conducted in the continuum mechanics framework using Finite Element Methods (FEM), which shows limitations in modeling the discontinuity nature of asphalt mixtures. Discrete Element Methods (DEM) offer a promising way to examine the mechanical properties of asphalt mixtures at the particle level, but it is inadequate for modeling deformable tire structure and capturing realistic tire contact forces on the pavement surface. In this study, a FEM–DEM coupling strategy was developed for the modeling of tire–pavement interaction by implementing a DEM model of asphalt mixtures with rolling tire loads from a FEM model. Based on simulations with realistic rolling tire load conditions, this coupling algorithm allows the investigation of particle force chain network evolution, particle displacement and velocity distributions, movements of individual particles, and particle contact force characteristics inside an asphalt mixture. This study offers an enriching expansion of both continuum and discrete mechanics methods for analyzing asphalt mixture responses under rolling tire loads, which can provide insight into pavement surface design. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[43] Cheng Chen,Zi-an Tang,Lei Zhang ,等.Comparison of lateral resistance between I-shaped and X-shaped sleepers using finite element and discrete element coupling method[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,165 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The lateral resistance of ballasted track is a key factors to maintain the stability of continuously welded rails. In this study, a new type of X-shaped sleeper was developed to increase the lateral resistance compared to conventional I-shaped sleepers. Multi PD3D (Particle discrete 3D) elements were bonded by rigid Beam-type multi-point constraints (MPCs) to implement irregular shaped ballast. The performance of the X-shaped sleeper was examined using track panel push-out tests simulations. The results showed that the X-shaped sleeper could provide 27% greater lateral resistance compared to double I-shaped sleepers. This is due to the V-fork arms which distribute the central and lateral crib ballasts more effectively, enhancing the stability of the sleeper. Crib ballasts play a crucial role in the lateral resistance of X-shaped sleeper, providing nearly double the lateral resistance compared to double I-shaped sleepers. Overall, the proposed X-shaped sleeper has stronger lateral resistance and stability, making it a promising option for future applications. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[44] 满娜 .基于DEM-FEM耦合的圆锥破碎机运动特性研究[J].煤矿机械,2023,44 (11):88-90
摘要：针对圆锥破碎机工作性能研究认识的不足,构建了圆锥破碎机系统三维模型,采用离散元法(DEM)与有限元法(FEM)耦合技术,利用多面体模拟矿物颗粒,并对破碎过程中破碎腔的受力状态进行运动学仿真。分析结果表明:矿物颗粒在破碎腔破碎过程中,动锥及偏心轴承受较大力,较容易磨损;在不同转速下,动锥转速与矿物颗粒的破碎比和破碎效率呈负相关;同时分析了动锥转速和轧臼壁变形量之间的关系。为圆锥破碎机参数优化提供参考。
[45] Liu, Gang,Qian, Zhendong,Wu, Xiaoyun ,等.Investigation on the compaction process of steel bridge deck pavement based on DEM-FEM coupling model[J].International Journal of Pavement Engineering,2023,24 (1),TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：Compared with the compaction of general highway asphalt pavement, that of steel bridge deck pavement (SBDP) is more complicated and vulnerable due to special supporting conditions and severe construction environment. Besides, the existing simulation models are not suitable for the analysis of SBDP compaction. To clarify the compaction mechanism and characteristics of SBDP under unfavorable construction conditions, the particles were generated using a random particle generation algorithm and the asphalt mixture layer was simulated through the discrete element method (DEM);the steel bridge deck with weld seam was taken as an example of unfavorable external conditions and simulated through the finite element method (FEM). On this basis, the spatial movement and contact state of the particles during the compaction process were tracked and investigated using the DEM-FEM coupling model. Results show that the DEM-FEM coupling model is effective and feasible to simulate SBDP compaction process. The spatial movement and contact state of the particles are described. The findings could contribute to improving SBDP compaction quality. The coupling of DEM-FEM also provides the method reference to the research of other SBDP compaction problems, such as the influence of temperature field variation and bridge vibration.
[46] 葛志昊,何亚南,娄慧 .具有有限应变的非线性多孔弹性问题最低阶等阶稳定化多物理场有限元方法[J].中国科学：数学,2025,55 (11):2071-2094
摘要：本文针对有限应变的非线性多孔弹性问题提出全离散最低阶等阶稳定化多物理场有限元方法.首先将原问题重建为一个关于位移矢量场以及拟压力场的广义非线性Stokes问题和一个关于其他拟压力场的扩散问题.然后,针对重建后的问题给出全离散稳定化最低阶等阶有限元方法,即时间离散采用向后Euler法,空间上采用易于实现的最低阶等阶P_(1)-P_(1)-P_(1)元对变量进行离散.此时变量(u,ξ)对应的有限元空间不满足离散的inf-sup条件,所以采用适当的稳定化技巧以保证数值解的存在唯一性.该方法不仅易于实现,可减少计算量,而且清楚地揭示了多孔弹性材料形变和扩散的多物理场过程且可以克服压力数值振荡和位移闭锁现象.本文证明了该方法具有最优误差阶.最后,通过数值算例验证了理论结果.
[47] Su, Dong,Zhang, Runqi,Xiong, Hao ,等.Dynamic analysis of rockfall impact on a protective structure via FEM-DEM coupling[J].Natural Hazards,2023,119 (3):1771-1797,SPRINGER
摘要：Rockfall is one of the most catastrophic hazards among natural calamities. The issue involving responses of discrete-continuum interactions concerning rockfall protection remains unclear. This study couples the finite element method with the discrete element method (FEM-DEM) to realize simulations of impact dynamics of falling boulder and computations of mechanical responses of a protective structure under imported loading. The FEM-DEM coupling algorithm is elucidated. The coupling approach is verified through a free-fall experiment with a block. The velocity and size effects on impact behavior of the boulder are investigated. The interactions between gravel cushion and the concrete structure are dissected. Structural responses correlated with boulder size and velocity effects are analyzed, and numerical results indicate that the two factors affect the variations of rotational velocity and the proportion of rotational-to-translational energy of block, respectively. Strengthening is observed at the bottom of cushion layer after block impact. Coupling results reveal that tensile stress is concentrated on the crown of retaining wall and the inner part of pile root, and structure deformation meets the need for stiffness. However, this type of protection carries a risk in obstructing boulders sized relatively large;additional structures should be considered in protection scheme.
[48] 程宏旸,Stefan Luding,Thomas Weinhart .粗粒化强化有限-离散元多尺度耦合方法在颗粒-连续体表面动态作用问题上的应用[J].Acta Mechanica Sinica,2023,39 (1):110-123
摘要：颗粒材料和可变形结构之间的相互作用与采矿、施工、粉末加工等许多工业过程相关.离散(DEM)和有限元法(FEM)之间的表面耦合通常用来模拟颗粒材料与连续体介质间的相互作用.本文使用最新提出“广义表面耦合”方法,通过粗粒化(CG)强化连续物理场从离散颗粒尺度数据中的提取,在离散-连续体接触面实现微观-宏观过渡.本文着重研究了颗粒-连续耦合系统中动量和能量的时间演化及其在CG宽度(即平滑内核有效范围)上的依赖性.通过三个数值算例,包括(1)密实颗粒流撞击柔性障碍物,(2)粘弹性立方体坠落并静止于颗粒床,(3)悬臂梁表面受重力作用滑动继而使梁弯曲的颗粒流,证明了CG强化的FEM-DEM表面耦合可以使数值结果更加准确,并减少耦合系统中的多余能量.通过比较三个计算实例,本文发现随着颗粒-连续体相互作用从静态到动态过度,CG强化面耦合方法的优势更加明显.随着CG宽度增加,耦合系统中过剩能量的衰减越强,高频振荡的振幅也越小,从而促进耦合系统中的应力松弛过程.但是最佳CG宽度的选择仍然取决于具体的耦合问题.
[49] Hu, Han,Cao, Miaoyan,Song, Pengfei ,等.FEM-DEM coupling analysis on hexagonal convex ring 6063-T5 tube ultrasonic-assisted granular medium forming[J].The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology,2023,127 (5-6):2505-2521,SPRINGER LONDON LTD
摘要：The corner filling of hexagonal convex ring is an important basic problem in the variable section forming technology of tube. It is easy to crack the tube in the forming area of the corner and difficult to obtain qualified products. This paper presents a new method of forming hexagonal convex ring with ultrasonic-assisted granular medium forming (UGMF) technology. Based on the finite element method (FEM) and discrete element method (DEM) coupling model, the wall thickness of tube, the shrinkage length of tube end, forming force, and the radius of corner are investigated. The experimental results show that vibration can reduce the radius of corner forming, improve the wall thickness distribution of corner area, and reduce the forming force. All these results indicate that UGMF is a new forming technology for convex ring tubes with hexagonal.
[50] 张德春,陈浩然,李鹏 ,等.动水中带封板圆柱壳振动的轴对称有限元⁃边界元耦合计算方法[J].振动工程学报,2025,38 (4):687-696
摘要：针对水环境中带封板圆柱壳的动力学计算提出了一种轴对称有限元⁃边界元耦合计算方法。基于结构的周期性特征,圆柱壳和封板的运动可通过其母线的运动唯一确定。将母线离散为若干个单元以进行有限元求解。通过能量法获得单元矩阵并组装成总体矩阵,建立了结构运动的有限元计算格式;考虑流体的轴对称特征,在结构母线上建立轴对称边界元并构建了流弹压力的边界元计算格式;获得流体压力后将其转换为有限元节点的等效节点力,其表现为流体附加质量、阻尼和刚度;结合结构运动方程和流弹压力计算格式,构造了求解该类流⁃固耦合问题的轴对称有限元⁃边界元耦合计算方法。本文计算结果与已有理论解和商用分析软件计算结果吻合较好,表明了本文方法的准确性。相比于商用分析软件,本文方法具有更高的计算效率,可直接获得圆柱壳在流体中的质量和刚度矩阵,有利于受迫振动的快速计算。基于本文方法分析了端部含封板复杂圆柱壳在动水中的湿频率和稳定性特性,结果表明:封板会改变壳体表面流动特性,更易诱发圆柱壳的流弹失稳。