[1] 杨开源,陈锡忠 .颗粒破碎的离散元及有限离散元模拟方法比较[J].化工学报,2025,76 (9):4398-4411,F0001
摘要：颗粒物料团聚体在化工过程中普遍存在,其在运输时常因内部相互作用或与反应器碰撞引发变形及破碎现象。这些破坏过程时间极短,传统实验手段难以有效观测。离散元方法(DEM)和有限元方法(FEM)是两种常见的数值模拟方法。结合这两种方法的优势,有限离散元方法(FDEM)应运而生。使用改进的弹塑性铁摩辛柯梁胶结DEM模型(上交胶结模型,SJBM)与弹塑性FDEM模型,分别对颗粒碰撞和单轴压缩进行模拟。结果表明,SJBM能更精细刻画颗粒体系的应力集中与演化,在变形过程中展现出更细节的微观力学特征;FDEM在保证模拟精度的前提下,自动转换材料行为,具有相对较低的计算资源消耗。两种方法的比较,为更复杂化工过程优化和颗粒过程预测提供了模拟工具的选择依据。
[2] Xu, Jian,Deng, Zhaopeng,Feng, Yelin ,等.Modeling progressive failure in steep rock slopes using the combined finite-discrete element method[J].Scientific Reports,2026,16 (1):1-16,NATURE PORTFOLIO
摘要：Steep rock slopes are vulnerable to failure under complex geological and environmental conditions, posing serious risks to infrastructure and human safety. Conventional numerical techniques of slope stability, including the limit equilibrium method (LEM), the finite element method (FEM), and the discrete element method (DEM). They often struggle to simulate progressive failure involving the rock transition from a continuous to a discontinuous state. To overcome these limitations, this study proposes an integrated finite-discrete element method combined with the gravity increase method (FDEM-GIM). Unlike conventional approaches, this framework automatically identifies the critical failure surface and calculates the corresponding factor of safety (FoS), while explicitly simulating the full progressive failure process. In a case study from the upper Lancang River region, the simulations showed a clear progressive failure sequence characterized by slope toe cracking, upward crack propagation, tensile deformation, and eventual global instability and rock mass accumulation. Comparisons with LEM and DEM produced similar FoS values, but only the FDEM-GIM framework reproduced the full spatial and temporal evolution of damage and movement. Overall, this research indicates that the FDEM-GIM framework is effective for long-term stability assessment of steep rock slopes in complex geological settings and can support reinforcement design and safety management.
[3] Xudong Chen,Hongfan Wang,Xunteng Wang ,等.Simulation on collapse of stone arch bridges using the combined finite-discrete element method[J].Engineering Failure Analysis,2026,190 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Collapse of single- and multi-span stone arch bridges is simulated in this study using the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) incorporating a cohesive zone fracture model. In the FDEM, solids and structures are discretised into numerous discrete elements, with a finite element formulation embedded within each discrete element to capture structural deformation and contact interaction accurately. Two-dimensional (2D) FDEM simulations are conducted for two single-span masonry arch bridges subjected to incrementally increasing vertical loads up to collapse, including the arch-backfill interaction. Mortar between voussoirs and the cohesion between arch and backfill are modelled by zero-thickness cohesive interfaces. The simulation results agree well with experimental data, demonstrating the capability of FDEM to effectively reproduce the collapse behaviour of stone arch bridges. Furthermore, a case study is presented on the progressive collapse of a multi-span stone arch bridge during construction, capturing the entire failure process. Insufficient material strength of main arch and lateral shift of abutment are investigated as potential triggering factors, and their relevance to the progressive collapse of the bridge is examined quantitively. Overall, the FDEM proves to be a feasible and practical tool for investigating the collapse mechanisms of stone arch bridges, providing quantitative insights into the reproduced failure process, which is crucial for post-failure analysis.
[4] 邓鹏海,刘泉声,卢海峰 ,等.基于FDEM数值模拟的土石混合体力学特性及破坏行为研究[J].工程力学,2025,42 (12):57-74
摘要：土石混合体(SRM)在浅表地层经常遭遇,其力学特性将直接影响到该类岩土工程的稳定性。采用有限元-离散元耦合数值模拟方法(FDEM)研究SRM力学特性及破坏行为,提出了SRM的二维FDEM数值建模方法和参数赋值方法,探讨了网格尺寸、块石拓扑形态和含石率对SRM力学特性及破裂特征的影响。研究表明:可采用基于Weibull分布的非均质岩样建模方法建立SRM数值模型,并通过调整土石分界限x、网格尺寸h和建模控制点以建立不同含石率和不同拓扑结构的SRM数值模型;网格尺寸和块石拓扑形态敏感性分析验证了该文所提SRM建模方法的鲁棒性;不同含石率试样的单轴压缩和三轴压缩模拟结果表明,SRM试样单轴抗压强度、三轴抗压强度、等效弹性模量、等效粘聚力和等效内摩擦角均随含石率的升高呈指函数增大;在三轴压缩下,随着围压的增大,SRM试样由单剪切裂隙破坏向X型共轭剪切破坏发展,且剪切破坏角与理论值一致。
[5] Weibing Cai,Wei Wang,Shuai Zhang ,等.A 3D contact interaction algorithm using unified distance potential field for the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM)[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2025,179, Part A ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To accurately estimate the dynamic collision between arbitrarily shaped and deformable 3D discrete entities, we establish a unified distance potential field using the boundary node list to efficiently calculate contact forces in the framework of the 3D combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). The proposed contact algorithm not only ensures momentum and energy conservation during elastic collision, but also resolves the dependence of contact force calculation on element size that commonly exists in conventional 3D FDEM. We conduct a series of benchmarks to verify the accuracy and robustness of the proposed approach for contact interaction between arbitrarily shaped discrete entities, and we also demonstrate the advantages of the proposed approach compared with the conventional contact algorithm. The work may provide a new solution to analyze any discontinuous computation models associated with rock mass systems.
[6] Zhonghao Li,Xiaofeng Li,Haibo Li ,等.The performance of quadratic finite-discrete element method (qFDEM) and its potential advantages[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2026,193 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The combined finite–discrete element method (FDEM) has proven effective for simulating crack initiation, propagation, and coalescence in brittle solids. However, existing FDEM frameworks remain limited to constant-strain elements, leading to restricted capability in representing complex stress fields, pronounced sensitivity to shear and volumetric locking, and a strong tendency toward numerical dispersion in dynamic problems. To overcome these limitations, this study develops a high order element-based framework incorporating a novel quadratic cohesive element to enhance model accuracy and continuity. The proposed quadratic cohesive element ensures uniform traction distribution along edges, avoiding the mid-node stress concentrations that typically lead to mesh incompatibility and artificial strength reduction. Three quasi-static loading tests and one wave propagation test are performed to compare quadratic and linear models. The results show that the quadratic model consistently outperforms the linear counterpart in stress path, crack propagation, and mitigating numerical dispersion. In quasi-static loading, the new quadratic model exhibits a lower error in stress, predicts a more precise crack initiation load, and provides more reliable crack path predictions compared with previous models. In dynamic conditions, it can effectively mitigate the numerical dispersion of high-frequency wave components that low-order elements struggle with and provide more stable wave propagation simulations. Moreover, the quadratic elements FDEM framework offers an economical alternative for enhancing the fidelity of crack simulations: compared to mesh refinement, quadratic elements achieve comparable accuracy in crack initiation load prediction with only 50–60% of the computational cost.
[7] Cai, Weibing,Yang, Lei,Zhang, Shuai ,等.A 2D Fully Coupled, Thermo-hydro-mechanical Modeling for Fault Activation Using the Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method (FDEM)[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2026,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：Within the framework of the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM), we propose a coupled thermo-hydro-mechanical (THM) model to investigate the underlying mechanism of fault reactivation induced by cold-fluid injection during geothermal heat extraction. The coupled model consists of three parts, i.e., a hydraulic solver, a thermal solver, and a mechanical solver. For the hydraulic solver, we use the finite volume method to implement the pore seepage in the rock matrix, and fracture seepage following the cubic law only occurs in the broken cohesive elements or pre-existing fractures. The thermal solver involves heat conduction both in solid and fluid, heat transfer between discrete bodies, heat exchange between solid and fluid, and fluid heat convection. The mechanical solver is responsible for capturing the solid deformation, solid fracturing and contact interaction. We conduct a suite of numerical benchmarks to verify the accuracy and robustness of the proposed THM model. As an application, we perform a cold-fluid injection simulation to investigate the effect of initial rock temperature, injected pressure and thermal expansion coefficient on the fault activation during geothermal heat extraction. Our simulations demonstrate that the increase of initial rock temperature and thermal expansion coefficient would produce more obvious deformation in terms of fault slip displacement and aperture, thus also leading to a more active and wider distribution of acoustic emission (AE) events. The proposed THM model may provide a new perspective to uncover the fault activation mechanism during unconventional energy *** 2D fully coupled, thermo-hydro-mechanical model is implemented in FDEMThe effectiveness and robustness of the proposed model are verifiedA new acoustic emission algorithm in terms of contact slip is proposedThe underlying mechanism of fault slip induced by a cold-fluid injection is uncovered
[8] 孙冠华,王章星,王娇 ,等.基于FDEM的地下内衬硐库密封结构-衬砌分缝协同优化设计研究[J].岩土力学,2026,47 (2):497-514
摘要：在高内压循环作用下地下储气库衬砌易产生裂缝与渗透通道,密封层受力与裂缝控制问题尤为关键。基于有限-离散元方法(finite-discrete element method,简称FDEM),建立了连续-非连续的围岩-衬砌-密封层整体模型,系统研究了平钢板与波拱两类钢衬及预设缝设计参数对衬砌裂缝演化与密封性能的影响。结果表明,平钢板型密封层应力水平和裂缝数量较高,整体性差,预设缝改善衬砌开裂与密封结构受力作用有限;波拱型结构能显著降低峰值应力并改变裂缝分布,使得裂缝多集中在波拱底部,整体裂缝数量减少,但波拱处的裂缝开裂宽度更大。采用波拱+预设缝相结合的方案可进一步均匀化开裂,减少密封钢衬应力。随着波拱和预设缝数量增加,应力分布趋于均匀,裂缝扩展受控,但最大裂缝宽度呈先减后增趋势,钢衬应力模式由拉应力向弯-剪应力转变。当缝设于拱底时,裂缝可沿预设路径均匀扩展,并可结合防排水措施降低渗透风险。总体而言,波拱+预设缝复合设计在引导裂缝、释放应变和提升密封渗透性能方面具有显著优势,为储气库密封-衬砌协同优化设计提供参考。
[9] Xu, Chenyu,Sun, Jinshan,Li, Gengquan ,等.Applying FDEM for Blasting Fragmentation of Jointed Rock Mass[J].Applied Sciences,2026,16 (3),MDPI
摘要：The combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is an advanced numerical calculation method that is highly suitable for simulating the entire rock blasting process. Considering that rock mass contains many joints, the present study introduces a rock joint constitutive model to capture the transmission and reflection phenomena of blasting stress waves when they reach the joint. At the same time, based on the original FDEM code, an optimized blasting calculation model is proposed. This model considers the effect of explosive gas and accurately describes the physical relationship between the explosive gas pressure and the change in the blasting chamber area caused by crack propagation. To overcome the limitation of previous blasting models that only apply the pressure of the explosive gas to the borehole wall, the present study optimizes the determination conditions for crack penetration and the calculation method for the blasting chamber area as well as further considered the influence of the embedding effect of explosive gas on crack propagation. Finally, through three examples, the transmission and reflection laws of stress waves at the joints and the entire process of rock mass throw blasting are simulated. The results illustrate that this model can capture the propagation of stress waves, the gas wedge effect of explosive gas, and the entire process of crack initiation, propagation, and penetration in the rock mass during the explosion, demonstrating the potential of FDEM in blasting simulation.
[10] Cai, Weibing,Gao, Ke,Ai, Shu-Gang ,等.A 2D Unified Distance Potential Field-Based Contact Interaction Algorithm for Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method (FDEM)[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2025,58 (6):6869-6892,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：The combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) has been widely used to simulate the rock fracturing process. However, the penalty-based contact interaction algorithm commonly utilized in FDEM is element size-dependent, which may yield artificial non-smoothness and abrupt jump of contact force. Specifically, the amplitude and direction of the obtained contact force between two contacting blocks can vary even when their overlap area is unchanged. To circumvent the limitations, we establish a unified distance potential field using the boundary node lists to calculate contact forces and consider the update of the local distance potential field when new fractures are generated. The proposed algorithm not only ensures momentum and energy conservation but also avoids the dependence of contact force on element size, which is thus suitable for any complex cases. The effectiveness and robustness of the proposed method for contact interaction between discrete bodies are verified, and its advantages are demonstrated. Finally, we present two application examples to demonstrate the capability of the proposed approach for evaluating rock slope stabilities when multi-block contact is involved. The work provides a new effective solution to analyze discontinuous computation models associated with complex rock mass systems.
[11] Zijia Liao,Hesamoddin Rabiee,Lei Ge ,等.Revealling pore microstructure impacts on the compressive strength of porous proppant based on finite and discrete element method[J].Journal of Materials Science & Technology,2025,211 (8):72-81,Chinese Society of Metals
摘要：Ceramic spheres,typically with a particle diameter of less than 0.8 mm,are frequently utilized as a critical proppant material in hydraulic fracturing for petroleum and natural gas *** ceramic spheres with artificial inherent pores are an important type of lightweight proppant,enabling their transport to distant fracture extremities and enhancing fracture ***,the focus frequently gravitates towards the low-density advantage,often overlooking the pore geometry impacts on compressive strength by traditional strength *** paper numerically bypasses such limitations by using a combined finite and discrete element method(FDEM)considering experimental *** mesh size of the model undergoes validation,followed by the calibration of cohesive element parameters via the single particle compression *** stimulation elucidates that proppants with a smaller pore size(40μm)manifest crack propagation evolution at a more rapid pace in comparison to their larger-pore counterparts,though the influence of pore diameter on overall strength is *** inception of pores not only alters the trajectory of crack progression but also,with an increase in porosity,leads to a discernible decline in proppant compressive ***,upon crossing a porosity threshold of 10%,the decrement in strength becomes more gradual.A denser congregation of pores accelerates crack propagation,undermining proppant robustness,suggesting that under analogous conditions,hollow proppants might not match the strength of their porous *** exploration elucidates the underlying mechanisms of proppant failure from a microstructural perspective,furnishing pivotal insights that may guide future refinements in the architectural design of porous proppant.
[12] Deng, Penghai,Liu, Quansheng .Rock breaking process by TBM disc cutters in heterogeneous granite based on a new FDEM modeling[J].European Journal of Environmental and Civil Engineering,2026,30 (1):1-40,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：Using the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM), a modeling approach for heterogeneous granite is proposed to study the mechanical properties and failure behaviors of specimens. The rock breaking laws of heterogeneous granite by disc cutters are also investigated, focusing on the effects of specimen size, cutter blade width, confining pressure, and cutter spacing. The following conclusions are drawn: (1) A Weibull distribution-based method can be used to establish an FDEM numerical model for heterogeneous granite;(2) Uniaxial compression, Brazilian splitting, and triaxial compression simulations validate the reliability of the new modeling method;(3) The specimen width is preferably not less than 40 cm and its thickness not less than 20 cm;(4) As the width of the disc cutter blade increases, the thrust of the cutter, the maximum size of rock debris, and the horizontal failure range of the specimen increase nearly linearly, with an optimal blade width of 10 similar to 14 mm;(5) Increasing confining pressure initially promotes and then inhibits rock breaking, with a critical confining pressure approximately one-third of the uniaxial compressive strength;(6) The optimal spacing between double disc cutters is 10 similar to 13 cm, ensuring that the rock debris between the cutters is neither too fragmented nor too large.
[13] Weibing Cai,Ke Gao,Shugang Ai ,等.A 2D continuous-discontinuous heat transport model considering thermal cracking for the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) using node binding scheme[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,326 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Within the framework of the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) employing cohesive elements, we propose a novel thermo-mechanical coupling model to simulate heat transport in fractured rock masses (i.e., heat conduction, heat transfer and heat exchange) and capture the initiation and propagation of thermal cracking. Instead of using a fictitious heat exchange coefficient for cohesive elements as those in previous work, in this model, we adopt a node binding scheme to ensure the continuity of heat conduction in the intact/continuous rock matrix domain prior to fracturing. The computational efficiency of heat conduction using the proposed approach is significantly improved ∼ 110 times (about 2560 triangle elements contained in a model), and the extra numerical parameter (i.e., the heat exchange coefficient of cohesive element) commonly used in the conventional FDEM is not required. To accommodate the finite strain theory implemented in FDEM for large deformations and rotations, we also employ the multiplicative decomposition of deformation gradient to calculate the thermal stress. We conduct a suite of numerical benchmarks to verify the effectiveness and robustness of the thermo-mechanical coupling model in terms of heat conduction, thermal cracking and heat transfer. As an application, a typical example is performed to uncover the underlying mechanism of thermal cracking induced by different temperatures and investigate the micro-fracturing of brittle crystalline rocks. The coupled thermo-mechanical coupling model may help enhance the applicability and accuracy of FDEM for deep energy exploitation.
[14] Xu, Chenyu,Hu, Yingguo,Li, Genquan ,等.Study on Dynamic Evolution of the Landslide-Anchorage Structure System Under Earthquake with the Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method[J].Applied Sciences,2025,15 (11),MDPI
摘要：The landslides caused by slope instability are very harmful and have a destructive effect on existing engineering structures such as tunnels, bridges, and houses. At present, the dynamic design of the anchorage structure is mainly based on traditional statics, which fails to fully consider the dynamic evolution process of landslide and its synergistic mechanism with anchorage structure. It is urgent to study the landslide-anchorage structure system considering both the catastrophic process and the evolution process. Based on the advanced combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM), the present study investigates the dynamic response characteristics and evolution process of the landslide-anchorage structure system by adding the dynamic strength reduction method considering the vibration deterioration effect of the structural plane and the combined one-dimensional and entity element model. The results show that the improved FDEM can accurately reproduce the characteristics of the dynamic response and the entire process of the landslide-anchorage structure system and can quantitatively evaluate the dynamic stability of the system. Through the setting of the two working conditions of unreinforced and reinforced slopes, it is verified that the addition of anchor cables can significantly reduce the dynamic response of the slopes. It is also found that the axial force is larger at the structural plane and the failure surface, and the PGA amplification factor positively correlates with the axial force of the anchor cables. The study reveals the dynamic response characteristics and evolution law of the landslide-anchorage structure system under earthquake, which can provide a scientific basis for the reasonable aseismic design of the landslide-anchorage structure system.
[15] Chenhui Guan,Chunshun Zhang,Congying Li .Influence of real particle morphology on single particle crushing behavior of rockfill based on FDEM[J].Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering,2025,17 (5):2793-2809,Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：Particle morphology is critical in affecting the crushing behavior of rockfill *** contrast,most current single particle simulations lack satisfactory morphology accuracy,and the resulting crushing modes deviate from observations to some ***,we reconstruct the real particle morphology with the spherical harmonic(SH)method and employ the finite-discrete element method(FDEM)to simulate the one-dimensional(1D)compressive crushing process of basalt particles commonly used in *** influences of four main morphological parameters,***,aspect ratio,roundness,and convexity,on the single particle strength and the crushing modes are *** results show that with the SH degree set to 15 and a mesh number of 20,480,the FDEM models of reconstructed particles achieve sufficient morphology accuracy and high computational *** on the model,the simulation results demonstrate that the aspect ratio has the most significant impact on single particle strength,followed by *** contrast,roundness and convexity have a weaker effect than the above two ***,it is revealed that single particle strength decreases with increasing aspect ratio and sphericity,while it increases with higher roundness and ***,aspect ratio significantly changes the initial crushing position,sphericity dominates post-crushing fragment size and quantity,and roundness mainly affects post-crushing *** model results have been employed in establishing a support vector regression(SVR)-based predicted model,exhibiting good predictive performance and advantages for the optimization of rockfill particles in engineering.
[16] 徐浩然,刘平,刘泉声 ,等.岩石类材料直接拉伸破坏的FDEM数值模拟[J].中南大学学报（自然科学版）,2024,55 (9):3416-3425,Central South University of Technology
摘要：有限元-离散元耦合算法(FDEM)在岩石裂纹扩展模拟中广泛应用,尤其在直接拉伸模拟中用于参数校核。然而,模拟结果通常受到拉伸速率和网格尺寸的影响。本文首先阐述FDEM基本原理;然后,建立直接拉伸数值计算模型,探究拉伸速率、网格尺寸及高径比对破坏模式和力学参数的影响;最后,给出直接拉伸模拟中建议采用的拉伸速率和网格尺寸。研究结果表明:随着拉伸速率增加,试样抗拉强度、破坏程度和峰值应变率增加,而平均弹性模量减小;在较低拉伸速率下(v≤0.01 m/s),试样仅产生1条主拉伸裂缝;当拉伸速率较高时,有分支裂缝出现在主拉伸裂缝上侧。网格尺寸对抗拉强度、峰值应变率和平均弹性模量的影响较小,但对破坏模式和破坏程度的影响较显著。随着高径比增加,试样的抗拉强度、破坏程度和峰值应变率增大,但平均弹性模量呈相反趋势,并且高径比对破坏程度的影响较为显著。建议在直接拉伸模拟中使用0.01 m/s的拉伸速率,并将网格尺寸限制在1.5 mm以内。
[17] Cong, Richao,Feng, Yanjun,Cheng, Shizhong ,等.Mechanical Properties and Failure Mechanisms of Layered Coal-Rock Combinations Under Different Confining Pressures and Thickness Ratios: A 3D FDEM-Based Numerical Simulation Study[J].Eng,2026,7 (2),MDPI
摘要：Clarifying the mechanical properties and failure patterns of layered coal-rock combinations in coal-measure strata is critical to guiding hydraulic fracturing design in petroleum and mining engineering. This paper investigates the mechanical properties, failure patterns, and stress distributions of sandstone-coal-sandstone (SCS) and mudstone-coal-mudstone (MCM) combinations under different confining pressures and thickness ratios based on the 3D combined finite-discrete element method (3D FDEM). The results show that the mechanical strength of the SCS combination is higher than that of the MCM combination under the same conditions. As the thickness ratio increases, the overall peak stress and elastic modulus of the combination decrease gradually and eventually approach those of the pure coal. As confining pressure increases, the peak stress of layered coal-rock combinations rises gradually, plastic behaviors become increasingly prominent, and the failure mode of the mudstone layer transitions from tensile-dominated to shear-dominated. Under different thickness ratios and confining pressures, the coal layer in the combinations primarily develops shear-dominated cracks, whereas the sandstone layer mainly generates tensile-dominated cracks. An increase in confining pressure elevates the critical thickness ratio for sandstone layer failure in the SCS combination. Essentially, the changes in stress state caused by rock types, thickness ratios, and confining pressures are important reasons for the variations in the failure patterns of each layer in layered coal-rock combinations. The key findings of this paper are expected to provide theoretical guidance for the field design of petroleum and coal mine engineering.
[18] Deng, Penghai,Liu, Quansheng .Failure mechanism of a tunnel in a soil-rock mixture based on a new combined finite-discrete element method[J].European Journal of Environmental and Civil Engineering,2025,29 (3):438-470,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：The mechanical properties and failure characteristics of soil-rock mixtures (SRMs) directly affect the stability of tunnels constructed in SRMs. A new SRM modelling method based on the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) was proposed. Using this new SRM modelling method based on the FDEM, the mechanical characteristics and failure behaviour of SRM samples under uniaxial compression, as well as the failure mechanism of SRMs around a tunnel, were further investigated. The study results support the following findings: (1) The modelling of SRM samples can be achieved using a heterogeneous rock modelling method based on the Weibull distribution. By adjusting the relevant parameters, such as the soil-rock boundaries, element sizes and modelling control points, SRM models with different rock contents and morphologies can be obtained. (2) The simulation results of uniaxial compression tests of SRM samples with different element sizes and morphologies validate the reliability and robustness of the new modelling method. In addition, with increasing rock content, VBP (volumetric block proportion), the uniaxial compressive strength and Young's modulus increase exponentially, but the samples all undergo single shear failure within the soil or along the soil-rock interfaces, and the shear failure angles are all close to the theoretical values. (3) Tunnels in SRMs with different rock contents all exhibit X-shaped conjugate shear failure, but the fracture network propagation depth, the maximum displacement around the tunnel, and the failure degree of the tunnel in the SRM roughly decreases via a power function as the rock content increases. In addition, as the rock content increases, such as when VBP = 40%, large rocks have a significant blocking effect on fracture propagation, resulting in an asymmetric fracture network around the tunnel. (4) The comparisons of uniaxial compression and tunnel excavation simulation results with previous theoretical results, laboratory te
[19] Haoyu Han,Xuantao Liu,Hongyuan Liu ,等.Modeling the fracture progressive process of slopes with a combined finite-discrete element method[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,322 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, an in-house combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) software is further developed to investigate the whole progressive failure process of slopes under natural conditions with the influence of discontinuous joints. A fast convergent scheme with local damping and mass scaling is first implemented into FDEM to quickly achieve geostatic stress equilibrium compared with critical damping scheme in conventional FDEM. The strength reduction method prevalent in finite element method together with two developed control criteria are then innovatively implemented into FDEM to not only automatically determine the critical failure surface and corresponding factor of safety but also model the whole progressive slope failure process, including the initiation and propagation of fractures, the formation of failure surface as well as the transport and deposition of blocks and fragments through massively parallel computing based on general-purpose graphic-processing-units. After that, discontinuous joints with various connectivity rates, spacings and dips are implemented into FDEM to investigate the whole progressive landslide process of a natural slope with complex geology. The proposed method is first validated by replicating the slope failure process obtained from a laboratory centrifuge model test. Then, it is applied in simulating the Randa landslide event occurred in the southwestern Swiss Alps, which takes account of the cases with and without discontinuous joints on site and reproduces the whole progressive landslide process. Furthermore, the effects of the connectivity rate, spacing and dip angle of the discontinuous joints on the whole landslide process of the Randa slope are investigated. The associated mechanisms regarding the critical role of the complex joint distributions in the landslide process are also highlighted. The developed FDEM software in this study is expected to provide a powerful tool for predicting and analyzing the complex landslide p
[20] Biqi Mao,Jialong Yang,Tong Wang ,等.Modeling the impact breakage of hollow shell granule with the coupled FDEM[J].Powder Technology,2026,467 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Breakage behaviour of walnut that is elucidated is one of the necessary premise to control and improve processing effect. In this regard, this paper is to apply combination of finite element method (FEM) and discrete element method (DEM) for simulating impact breakage and revealing its breakage characteristics. The walnut was represented as hollow shell granule composed of a set of bulk elements connected by cohesive interface element (CIE). Parameters characterizing mechanical behaviour were calibrated using uniaxial compression tests. Effects of impact velocity and angle on breakage characteristics were analyzed. Results indicated that according to degree of breakage, breakage pattern can be divided into four modes. Changing from local collapse to fragmentation, the damage ratio first increases linearly and then exponentially while the size ratio of the largest fragment first slightly deviates linear decrease and then exponential decreases. Correspondingly, dominated fracture mode of CIE transfers from tensile fracture to shear fracture.
[21] Jiale Lu,Baofeng Pan,Jinghui Zhang ,等.Mesoscale modelling of single-aggregate debonding behaviour in asphalt pavement using the combined finite and discrete element method[J].Computers & Structures,2025,315 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Aggregate loss from artificial asphalt pavement surfaces widely happens, which causes premature deterioration of roads. However, the debonding mechanism of geographical aggregate is still unrevealed owing to the intricate aggregate morphology and the multiphase structure. To address this challenge, a combined finite and discrete element method (FDEM) was presented to simulate the debonding behaviour in the mesoscale. A mesh-size sensitivity study was first conducted on the asphalt composite to ensure the model self-consistency. Then a realistic particle shape with natural morphology from X-ray micro-computed tomography (XCT) was imported into the numerical model. To explore the role of the aggregate shape on debonding behaviour, systematic simulations were also performed on spherical, ellipsoidal particles for comparison. Results show that the curvature variation could significantly enhance the nesting effect, facilitating stress diffusion. Meanwhile, the further enrichment of irregular curvature variation on real particles results in a more uniform distribution of failure area concerning the aggregate and interface, however, reduces the maximum reaction moment for debonding. The breaking moments for both ellipsoidal and realistic aggregates obey the Generalized extreme value (GEV) distribution. This study helps improve the cognition of aggregate shape effect on debonding behaviour and facilitates the design optimization of the asphalt wearing course.
[22] Peitao Li,Quansheng Liu,Lidan Fan ,等.Investigation of fracture energy rate for the combined finite-discrete element method[J].Computational Particle Mechanics,2025,12 (1):413-436,Elsevier Science
摘要：In the combined finite-discrete element method, the crack element was an important bridge to realize the transition from continuous to discontinuous deformation. The crack element was assumed as a non-thickness cohesive element, which could not be tested directly. The fracture energy rate for the crack element was an essential parameter determining the deformation and fracture process during the FDEM simulation. However, the common parameter calibration method required experience and time. Thus, a new estimation method of fracture energy rate was derived based on the energy mechanism. The proposed estimation method was consistent with the Griffith fracture criterion but also can reflect the influence of mechanical and inherent properties. Then, the influence of fracture energy rate on rock strength and fracture characteristic was analysed. The results showed that both the tensile strength and uniaxial compressive strength were increased with the fracture energy rate. A smaller tensile fracture energy rate would lead to a larger ratio of tensile fracture and a decrease in shear fracture. It was opposite for the shear fracture energy rate. Based on the rock strength and fracture characteristics, the initial coefficient of fracture energy rate should be 1.0. The fracture energy rate determined by the proposed estimation method and initial coefficient was close to the optimal value, which was well verified by the laboratory test result and tunnel engineering. Finally, the improved calibration steps of fracture energy rate for the complex material were put forward, which was expected for the fast and accurate calibration of model parameters.
[23] Wang, Biao,Liu, Zaobao,Du, Xi ,等.Numerical Investigation of the Triaxial Direct Shear Failure Mechanism of a Granite Polycrystalline Model under Thermomechanical Coupling: Insights from Nanoindentation and FDEM[J].Journal of Engineering Mechanics,2026,152 (2),ASCE-AMER SOC CIVIL ENGINEERS
摘要：The long-term mechanical behavior of rocks under thermally coupled environment is an important issue affecting the stability of underground engineering. In this paper, the triaxial direct shear mechanical properties and failure modes of Beishan granite under thermal coupling were revealed by nanoindentation experiments combined with finite-discrete element method (FDEM). The experimental results show that the long-term strength parameters of Beishan granite obtained according to the Mohr-Coulomb criterion show a tendency of cohesion increasing and then decreasing with increasing temperature, and the change of friction angle is not significant. For the same temperature condition, the confining pressure level is elevated, and the percentage of creep strain under the same load ratio increases. For the same temperature condition, the creep strain percentage under the same load ratio increases and then decreases when the enclosure pressure level increases. Increasing confining pressure from 9 to 22 MPa resulted in a 238% rise in transgranular cracks and 36% more shear cracks. Conversely, raising temperature from 30 degrees C to 110 degrees C increased total intergranular and transgranular cracks by 56% but reduced shear cracks by 20%. These findings offer theoretical insights and methods for predicting the long-term stability of nuclear waste repositories.
[24] Chen, Xudong,Wu, Xianlong,Wang, Hongfan ,等.Behavior of Masonry Walls and Building Envelopes Subjected to Differential Settlement Simulated with a GPGPU-parallelized FDEM[J].International Journal of Applied Mechanics,2026,18 (2),WORLD SCIENTIFIC PUBL CO PTE LTD
摘要：The failure behavior of dry-joint masonry walls and building envelopes subjected to differential settlement is simulated with a 3D GPGPU-parallelized combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). Due to material degradation, mortar is usually lost or with little remaining cohesion in ageing masonry structures, and thus the dry-joint assumption can be reasonably accepted. Dry-joint masonry walls and building envelopes are composed of individual blocks, and exhibit high nonlinearity and discontinuity. Each masonry block is discretized into a number of four-node linear tetrahedral elements (TET4) in 3D FDEM. A finite element formulation is incorporated into each TET4 element, enabling decent predictions on contact forces and structural deformation. Using the FDEM, deformation and discontinuity of masonry structures can be represented in a more rational manner. Virtual experiments on masonry walls were conducted and the emergent phenomena were validated with the physical tests. A case study on a masonry building envelope subjected to differential settlement was investigated, and the influence of settlement profile on the failure behavior was studied. It was found that settlement within the plane of a single fa & ccedil;ade resulted in limited spatial effect. The three-dimensional effect was well exhibited in the cases of combined front-side foundation settlement, and the out-of-plane behavior was well identified by the FDEM.
[25] Li, Ruidong,He, Shaoheng,Jiang, Haoran ,等.Morphology-Controlled Single Rock Particle Breakage: A Finite-Discrete Element Method Study with Fractal Dimension Analysis[J].Fractal and Fractional,2025,9 (9),MDPI
摘要：This study investigates the influence of particle morphology on two-dimensional (2D) single rock particle breakage using the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) coupled with fractal dimension analysis. Three key shape descriptors (elongation index EI, roundness index Rd, and roughness index Rg) were systematically varied to generate realistic particle geometries using the Fourier transform and inverse Monte Carlo. Numerical uniaxial compression tests revealed distinct morphological influences: EI showed negligible impact on crushing strength or fragmentation, and Rd significantly increased crushing strength and fragmentation due to improved energy absorption and stress distribution. While Rg reduced strength through stress concentration at asperities, suppressing fragmentation and elastic energy storage. Fractal dimension analysis demonstrated an inverse linear correlation with crushing strength, confirming its predictive value for mechanical performance. The validated FDEM framework provides critical insights for optimizing granular materials in engineering applications requiring morphology-controlled fracture behavior.
[26] 汪泾周,马刚,赵婷婷 ,等.基于精确缩尺和粗粒化的颗粒材料FDEM模拟方法[J].岩土工程学报,2024,46 (11):2371-2379
摘要：颗粒材料具有非连续、离散性等特征,在进行数值模拟时面临着较大的计算压力。通过将精确缩尺准则和粗粒化方法引入到连续-离散耦合(combined finite-discrete element method,FDEM)方法中,旨在为加速基于FDEM的颗粒材料数值模拟提供一种解决方案。基于精确缩尺和粗粒化等理论,推导了FDEM中应遵循的精确缩尺准则,在此基础上分别进行了等粒径颗粒体系及二元颗粒体系的三轴剪切数值试验。试验结果表明,在未引入精确缩尺准则时,粗粒化模型表现的力学响应特征会发生改变,结果出现失真,因此必须对粗粒化模型参数进行修正。引入精确缩尺准则后,粗粒化模型的力学响应特征会得到补正。试验结果论证了FDEM引入精确缩尺准则和粗粒化方法的有效性,即能在近似原始颗粒体系的条件下大幅度提升采用FDEM进行颗粒材料数值模拟的计算效率。基于数值试验结果进行了宏细观力学分析,宏观应力变形和细观接触力相互映证,揭示了精确缩尺和粗粒化方法的细观力学机理。
[27] Liu, He,Zhu, Panpan,Liu, Quansheng ,等.Equivalent Nodal Intensity-Based Contact Model for 3D Finite-Discrete Element Method in Rock Fracturing Analysis[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2025,58 (6):6059-6086,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：In this paper, a novel equivalent nodal intensity-based contact model is proposed to enhance 3D FDEM (Combined Finite-Discrete-Element Method) in fracturing analysis. The normal contact force is uniformly distributed on the overlapped region between two contact bodies, with its magnitude being linearly proportional to the equivalent nodal intensity, which can be readily obtained based on the geometric characteristics of the overlapped region. In comparison with the existing contact models in 3D FDEM, the proposed contact model achieves significant simplification and enables efficient parallelization on General Purpose Graphic Processing Unit (GPGPU). By conducting a range of comparative tests, it has been confirmed that the proposed contact model correctly captures the interaction between discrete bodies and produces results consistent with those generated by the original contact model and laboratory experiment, thus validating the feasibility and applicability of the proposed contact model. Meanwhile, the efficiency analysis indicates that, for GPGPU parallel version, the proposed contact model achieves a speed-up ratio of 7.2 compared to the original model in 3D FDEM. The proposed contact model is physically sound and computationally efficient, which holds promise for driving advancements in 3D FDEM.
[28] Weibing Cai,Ke Gao,Shugang Ai ,等.A 2D energy-conserving contact model for the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM)[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,166 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) has been widely used to simulate the progressive fracturing of brittle materials from continua to discontinua. However, due to the relatively simple definition of contact potential, the contact interaction algorithm utilized in the original FDEM is element size-dependent. As a result, a non-smooth and fluctuating contact force direction can occur when a contact point moves from one area of an element to another, and the contact interaction algorithm may fail to accurately evaluate the tangential contact force. To circumvent these limitations, we adopt an energy-conserving model developed recently to calculate the contact force in 2D FDEM, in which the magnitude and direction of contact force can be directly determined by geometrical features. A suite of numerical benchmarks is conducted to validate the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed method for contact interaction processing between discrete bodies, and the advantages of the proposed method are also demonstrated. As an application, two typical examples are performed to systematically explore the potential of the proposed approach for evaluating the stability of rock mass and rock slope. The proposed contact model may help enhance the applicability and accuracy of FDEM for rock fracturing simulation. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[29] Xudong Chen,Peng Huang,Hongfan Wang ,等.Seismic responses of classical masonry columns and colonnades simulated with the combined finite-discrete element method[J].Soil Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering,2024,181 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：As a common type of discontinuous civil engineering structures, classical columns and colonnades are assemblages of masonry blocks and mortar and widely found in ancient historic heritages. Since mortar always degrades significantly over ages, the dry-joint assumption is widely accepted for the analysis of such type structures. Earthquakes are hazardous to them and may lead to severe damages, even collapse. Finite element method (FEM) and discrete element method (DEM) have been widely used to simulate the responses of classical masonry columns and colonnades subjected to ground motions. However, potential fragmentation of masonry columns and colonnades cannot be fully simulated by FEM, due to inherent limitations on continuity requirement, or by traditional DEM, since masonry fracturing is ignored generally. In this study, the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is employed to investigate the seismic behaviour of columns and colonnades subjected to ground motions, enriching its application in structural engineering. With a present FDEM model, structures are discretised by discrete elements incorporated with finite element formulation, resulting in more accurate deformation and interaction. A cohesive zone model accounting for the rupture of masonry blocks is implemented in the FDEM. Numerical examples are presented and validated, and simulations on a multi-drum masonry colonnade of the Forum in Pompeii are conducted. Key factors on seismic behaviour of the colonnade, such as PGA, predominant period, masonry fracturing and strengthening are investigated, providing beneficial suggestions on maintenance and protection of such architectural heritages. It is demonstrated that the FDEM is a robust tool to predict the seismic responses of masonry columns and colonnades subjected to ground motions. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[30] Sun, Guan-hua,Wang, Zhang-xing,Wang, Jiao ,等.FDEM-based collaborative optimization of sealing structure and lining preset joint design in underground lined rock caverns[J].岩土力学,2026,47 (2):497-514,SCIENCE PRESS
摘要：Underground lined rock caverns (LRCs) used for compressed air energy storage are highly susceptible to cracking and the development of leakage pathways under cyclic high-pressure loading. Therefore, sealing performance and crack control are critical design challenges. This study employs the finite-discrete element method (FDEM) to develop an integrated rock-lining-sealing layer model, to systematically compare flat steel plate and wave-arch liners, as well as to analyze the influence of preset joint design parameters on crack evolution and sealing behavior. The results indicate that flat steel plate liners exhibit elevated stress levels, numerous cracks, and poor structural integrity, while preset joints provide only limited mitigation. In contrast, wave-arch liners significantly reduce peak stress and redistribute cracking, concentrating damage beneath arches, thereby lowering crack density, albeit with locally larger crack widths. A combined wave-arch and preset joint design further uniform crack propagation and alleviates liner stress. Increasing the number of wave arches and preset joints improves stress uniformity and crack control. However, the maximum crack width exhibits a "decrease-increase" trend, accompanied by a transition in liner stress mode from tension-dominated to bending-shear dominated behavior. When joints are placed at arch bottoms, cracks develop uniformly along the preset paths;when combined with waterproofing and drainage measures, leakage risks can be effectively managed. Overall, the wave-arch and preset joint composite design offers notable advantages in guiding crack development, releasing strain, and enhancing sealing reliability, providing a robust reference for coordinated optimization of sealing and lining design in underground LRCs.
[31] Deng, Penghai,Liu, Quansheng,Lu, Haifeng .A new combined finite-discrete element method for stability analysis of soil-rock mixture slopes[J].Engineering Computations,2024,41 (8/9):2190-2224,EMERALD GROUP PUBLISHING LTD
摘要：Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to propose a new combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) to analyze the mechanical properties, failure behavior and slope stability of soil rock mixtures (SRM), in which the rocks within the SRM model have shape randomness, size randomness and spatial distribution randomness. Design/methodology/approach - Based on the modeling method of heterogeneous rocks, the SRM numerical model can be built and by adjusting the boundary between soil and rock, an SRM numerical model with any rock content can be obtained. The reliability and robustness of the new modeling method can be verified by uniaxial compression simulation. In addition, this paper investigates the effects of rock topology, rock content, slope height and slope inclination on the stability of SRM slopes. Findings - Investigations of the influences of rock content, slope height and slope inclination of SRM slopes showed that the slope height had little effect on the failure mode. The influences of rock content and slope inclination on the slope failure mode were significant. With increasing rock content and slope dip angle, SRM slopes gradually transitioned from a single shear failure mode to a multi-shear fracture failure mode, and shear fractures showed irregular and bifurcated characteristics in which the cut-off values of rock content and slope inclination were 20% and 80 degrees, respectively. Originality/value - This paper proposed a new modeling method for SRMs based on FDEM, with rocks having random shapes, sizes and spatial distributions.
[32] Chen, Zitao,Yu, Honggan,Bo, Yin ,等.A Novel Frictional Contact Interaction Algorithm for FDEM and Its Application in TBM Jamming[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2025,58 (8):8523-8555,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：The three-dimensional combined finite-discrete element method (3D-FDEM) is widely used to simulate the fracture process and contact interaction between different blocks of rock materials. However, the conventional FDEM contact theory only includes the normal contact force and does not characterize the frictional force during relative motion. A novel FDEM contact algorithm is proposed by inheriting the advantages of the conventional algorithm. The magnitude and the direction of frictional force are determined based on the volume of the contact area and the direction of relative velocity between contacting objects. The novel algorithm can characterize the energy attenuation during collision and slide between different blocks, which is consistent with the physical scene;a main shear penetration crack is generated on the rock indentation simulation with the novel algorithm, consistent with the experimental results. The frictional penalty value PII is calibrated: when PII = mu x PI, the simulation results are consistent with the theoretical solutions. Finally, a tunnel excavation simulation is performed, and the frictional force on the shield is calculated when TBM is restarted after a while of standstill. The longer the analysis steps of standstill, the greater the thrust force required to overcome the frictional force on the shield. When the analysis steps of standstill exceed 845,000, TBM (shield) jamming will occur. The risk of TBM jamming will increase under the geological conditions of soft rock and high geostress. The risk of shield jamming can be mitigated by reducing the time of standstill. The novel algorithm contributes to optimizing the design of tunnel excavation patterns and advance rate, guaranteeing the stability of the surrounding rockmass.
[33] Weiqin Wang,Jianxi Ren,Ziwei Ding ,等.Failure mechanisms and stability control principles of high geostressed deep mining structures: Investigation by FDEM and field measurements[J].Engineering Failure Analysis,2025,169 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Structural instability and reinforcement opportunity are challenging issues in deep mining. Field stress has a significant effect on the fracture behavior and deformation of rock masses. However, valid stress measurements are difficult to obtain in soft rock and coal seams under high-stress conditions. This study performs measurements and numerical modeling to systematically investigate the fracture and stability control of structures subjected to high in situ stresses. Emphasis was placed on investigating how local stress affects fracture evolution characteristics and failure mechanisms of tunnel surrounding rock. Firstly, the deep tunnel internal stress was successfully determined at different locations of the fractured rock using in-situ stress field measurements of the rheological stress recovery method and the hollow inclusion stress cell method, the lateral pressure coefficients (λ) had average values of 1.05 and 1.3, respectively. Subsequently, methods for in-situ stress initialization and underground excavation simulation in combined finite discrete element method (FDEM) were proposed to simulate large-scale rock fracture in a reasonable and effective way. The methods are implemented in the CGP-FDEM program, which takes advantage of parallel programming of the graphics processing units (GPUs) with the Compute Unified Device Architecture (CUDA) and significantly improves the FDEM algorithms. The simulation evaluates the fracture- fragmentation and deformation of the surrounding rock in a deep tunnel excavation through a comparative analysis of different λ conditions that are determined by local stress. The results indicate that stress is the primary driver of fracturing and large deformation of the weak surrounding rocks. In addition, fracture and fragmentation contribute to the large bulk deformations of the tunnel. This finding provides explanations for the mechanism of fracture evolution and the large bulk deformation of tunneling in a high-stress environm
[34] Weibing Cai,Ke Gao,Yan Qiao ,等.A 2D continuous-discontinuous unified pore-fracture seepage model for hydro-mechanical coupling in the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) using node binding scheme[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,173 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) has been widely used to simulate the dynamic propagation of hydraulic fractures. In the conventional FDEM, a fictitious fluid exchange coefficient between adjacent finite element pairs needs to be specified to alleviate the discontinuous pore seepage in the continuous rock matrix domain. This commonly employed approach inevitably increases computational cost and introduces additional numerical parameters (e.g., fluid exchange coefficient). To circumvent these limitations, we propose a node binding scheme that not only ensures continuous pore seepage simulations in the intact/continuous rock matrix domain, but also allows discontinuous pore pressures on the two sides of a fracture. The computational efficiency of pore seepage simulation using the proposed approach is increased by ∼120 times for a model with ∼6000 triangle elements, and fictitious numerical parameters are not required. A suite of numerical benchmarks is conducted to verify the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed pore-fracture seepage model, and its capability of capturing the dynamic propagation process of fluid-driven fractures is also demonstrated. As an application, a typical example is employed to explore the mechanism of multiple hydraulic fracturing. The proposed hydro-mechanical coupling model may help enhance the applicability and accuracy of FDEM for unconventional energy exploitation. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[35] Deng, Peng-Hai,Liu, Quan-Sheng,Lu, Hai-Feng ,等.STUDY ON MECHANICAL CHARACTERISTICS AND FAILURE BEHAVIOR OF SOIL-ROCK MIXTURE UPON COMBINED FDEM NUMERICAL SIMULATION[J].工程力学,2025,42 (12):57-74,Tsinghua University
摘要：Soil-rock mixtures (SRMs) are often encountered in shallow strata, and their mechanical characteristics will directly affect the stability of these geotechnical projects. The combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) was used to study the mechanical characteristics and failure behavior of SRM. The twodimensional FDEM numerical modeling method and parameter assignment method for SRM were proposed. The effects of element size, of rock topology and of rock content on the mechanical characteristics and on the fracture behavior of SRM were also investigated. The results indicate that: The heterogeneous rock sample modeling method based on Weibull distribution can be used to establish an FDEM numerical model of SRM. A numerical model of SRM with different rock contents and topological structures can be built by adjusting the soil-rock boundary x, element size h and control points when building the model;the sensitivity analysis of element size and rock topology verifies the robustness of the modeling method proposed for SRM;the uniaxial and triaxial compression simulation results of samples with different rock contents show that: Uniaxial compressive strength, triaxial compressive strength, equivalent elastic modulus, equivalent cohesion and equivalent internal friction angle of the SRM increase exponentially with the increase of rock content;and under the condition of triaxial compression, as the confining pressure increases, the SRM sample develops from single shear crack failure to Xshaped conjugate shear failure, and the value of shear failure angle is consistent with its theoretical one. © 2025, Tsinghua University, All rights reserved.
[36] Zi-Qi Tang,Zhen-Yu Yin,Yin-Fu Jin ,等.A novel mesoscale modelling method for steel fibre-reinforced concrete with the combined finite-discrete element method[J].Cement and Concrete Composites,2024,149 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper proposes a novel mesoscale modelling method to study the effect of steel fibres on the fracture properties of steel fibre reinforced concrete (SFRC) based on an integrated finite-discrete element method (FDEM) framework. The present method models the steel fibre of SFRC as multiple bar elements, while simulating the cement matrix using triangle elements. A comprehensive bond-slip model is also introduced between the triangle element and bar element, enabling accurate reproduction of the interaction behaviour between the concrete matrix and steel fibre. Additionally, the progressive failure process of cohesive elements in FDEM is considered as crack propagation, confirming the superiority of FDEM from continuum to discontinuum. The results of the Brazilian split test and uniaxial compression test validate the capability of the FDEM framework for mode Ι and mode II fractures, while single fibre pull-out tests and 3-point-bending beam tests provide validation of the effectiveness of the integrated FDEM framework for the mesoscale modelling of SFRC. The discussion also covers employing the mesoscale modelling method to investigate the effect of steel fibre on the fracture properties of SFRC. Owing to its merits in quantitative analysis, the present method can serve as a feasible potential tool for mesoscale modelling analysis and SFRC design. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[37] Mansour Sharafisafa,Zeinab Aliabadian,Luming Shen .Numerical study of presplit blasting in rock masses with a closed and filled joint using coupled finite-discrete element method[J].Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory,2025,144 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The optimized performance of rock blasting heavily relies on the presence of discontinuities. These geological features play an important role in wave and fracture propagation in rocks and can be considered a barrier against the blast wave and fracture propagation. Blasting has many applications, but one of the important aspects is presplitting blasting, in which light blasts are operated to create a continuous plane prior to the main blasting. The goal of this particular blast operation is mainly to inhibit damage to the reserved rock. In the presplit blastingin underground rocks, the magnitude of the ground in-situ stresses plays a vital role and dominates the performance of the presplitting, which can lead to an unsuccessful detonation if mismeasured. There is much evidence that, in many cases, the joints are not closed but instead are filled with a different material. Thus, in this study, the performance of presplit blasting in a rock domain with a closed or filled joint is analysed using the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) with a gas in fracture logic. First, the applicability of the method is verified against some experiments. Once verified, 2D FDEM models are analysed to evaluate the influence of an inclined closed or filled flaw on blast-induced fracture development. The FDEM results confirm the strong impact of joint inclination angle on the fragmentation degree. Furthermore, it is shown that the performance of the presplit blasting is remarkably dependent on the magnitude of ground in-situ stresses. The results also show that the filling material and its orientation angle with respect to the maximum principal stress have an imposing effect on the success of the presplitting blasting. Also, it is revealed that in the presplit blasting with filled joint, the failure of the filling is a mode failure, while the connecting fractures are of tensile mode.
[38] Chenglei Du,Yucong Pan,Shibing Huang ,等.Numerical investigation of TBM shield jamming mechanisms and mitigation measures using a GPU-Parallelized 3D FDEM method[J].Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology,2026,172 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The TBM method has become the preferred approach for constructing deeply buried and long tunnels. However, when advancing through adverse ground conditions such as loose fractured zones, composite rock formations, or high-stress areas, TBMs are prone to jamming, leading to substantial economic losses and construction delays. In this study, a TBM jamming incident is analyzed using a GPU-parallelized three-dimensional Finite Discrete Element Method (3D FDEM) integrated with field monitoring data, to reveal the mechanisms of TBM shield jamming and its mitigation. First, on-site TBM operational data are collected, and a shield deformation monitoring system is deployed to analyze the variations in mechanical parameters during the jamming incubation stage. Next, a detailed numerical model of the TBM tunnel is developed to simulate the deformation and failure of the surrounding rock, as well as the spatiotemporal evolution of contact and extrusion interactions between fractured rock blocks and the shield, from which the shield surface friction distribution is derived. Finally, a grouting reinforcement algorithm based on the fracture-repairing mechanism of joint elements is proposed. The effectiveness of combined reinforcement measures in reducing shield-rock interaction forces and mitigating jamming risks is evaluated by incorporating solid-element modeled rockbolts and grouting support. This study provides valuable insights for the early warning, prevention, and mitigation of TBM shield jamming in complex geological conditions.
[39] Weiqin Wang,Kekuo Yuan,Quansheng Liu ,等.Mesh size identification for cohesive fracture model based on experimentally calibrated FPZ length and FDEM simulation[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2026,143 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Abstract
[40] Yin, Xiuliang,Wu, Zhijun,Xu, Xiangyu ,等.Numerical Investigation on the Grouting Penetration Process of Quick-Setting Grout in Discrete Fractured Rock Mass Based on the Combined Finite-Discrete-Element Method[J].International Journal of Geomechanics,2024,24 (3),ASCE-AMER SOC CIVIL ENGINEERS
摘要：In this study, a combined finite-discrete-element method (FDEM)-based grouting simulator, in which the effect of time-dependent rheological characteristic caused by grout hydration on grouting penetration is adequately considered, was developed for more accurately modeling the grouting penetration process in the fractured rock mass, especially for quick-setting grout. To implement the grouting penetration process, the time-dependent Bingham model for characterizing the time-dependent rheological characteristic of grout, the flow network searching algorithm combining with the grout flow solver for solving the grout flow, and the hydromechanical (HM) coupling algorithm for characterizing the grout-rock interaction were systematically integrated into the FDEM framework. After that, to validate the developed simulator for modeling the grouting penetration of time-dependent Bingham grout and the grout-rock interaction, two benchmark tests were conducted. Finally, to further demonstrate the capability of the developed simulator, the rheological model for characterizing the cement and sodium silicate (C-S) grout, a quick-setting grout, was embedded in the simulator to simulate the grouting penetration process in the discrete fracture network. The results indicated that the developed simulator can accurately capture the effect of time-dependent rheological characteristic caused by grout hydration on the grouting penetration process. As the water-cement ratio (W/C) increased or the cement-sodium silicate (C/S) ratio decreased, both the penetration rate and grouting ratio increased significantly. Increasing the W/C ratio was more effective than decreasing the C/S ratio to increase the penetration range. Decreasing the C/S ratio can increase the grouting penetration range more significantly than increasing the grouting pressure.
[41] Wu, Yamin,Wang, Tuanjie,Duan, Junfeng ,等.Mesoscale numerical study of size effect on concrete fracture characteristics based on FDEM[J].Electronic Journal of Structural Engineering,2025,25 (1):46-51,EJSE INT LTD
摘要：Fracture characteristics of concrete remain a focal point of current research. Traditional experimental approaches and finite element simulations face limitations in the study of concrete fracture behavior. The novel combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) offers pronounced advantages for investigating concrete fracture at the mesoscopic scale. In this paper, utilizing the FDEM approach, a mesoscale concrete model encompassing aggregates, mortar, and the interfacial transition zone was constructed. Three-point bending simulations on concrete beams with precast cracks revealed the mesoscopic fracture processes and characteristics. Results showed that as beam height increases, the fracture energy of the specimens first increases then decreases, and the ductility index decreases. Additionally, as the crack height ratio increases, the beam's fracture energy gradually lowers, while the ductility index initially rises then falls. This study provides insights into beam fracture mechanisms and properties, contributing to the failure analysis of concrete structures at the engineering scale.
[42] 刘平,刘泉声,夏明锬 ,等.孔洞形状对层状岩石力学特性影响的FDEM数值模拟研究[J].中南大学学报（自然科学版）,2024,55 (2):595-606
摘要：为揭示孔洞形状对层状岩石力学性质和破坏模式的影响,采用有限元-离散元耦合数值模拟方法(FDEM)开展系列数值模拟研究。首先,阐述FDEM模拟层状岩石的基本原理,然后,开展不同层理倾角完整试样的单轴压缩模拟,并与试验结果进行对比验证。最后,对含有圆形、椭圆形、三角形、矩形和方形孔洞的层状岩石试样(β为0°、30°、45°、60°和90°)进行单轴压缩模拟研究。研究结果表明:对于不同孔洞形状的试样,抗压强度和试样破坏程度随层理倾角的增大呈V字型变化趋势,且均在层理倾角为0°时抗压强度取得最大值,在90°时破坏程度最为严重;孔洞的存在严重削弱了试样的力学性能,且削弱幅度与孔洞形状密切相关,其中方形和圆形孔洞对抗压强度的削弱能力最弱。将含不同形状孔洞试样的破坏模式随层理倾角的变化主要分为穿层理面拉剪混合破坏(β=0°)、沿层理面与穿层理面混合拉剪破坏(β=30°)、沿层理面剪切破坏(β=45°和60°)和沿层理面拉剪劈裂破坏(β=90°)。
[43] Cong, Richao,Yang, Ruiyue,Liu, Yiwen ,等.Influence of Interfacial Properties on Mechanical Behaviors and Failure Patterns of Coal-Measure Thin Interbedded Rocks Under Uniaxial Compression Using 3D FDEM[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2025,58 (3):3589-3610,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：Investigating the mechanical behaviors and failure patterns of the coal-rock thin interbedded rocks within the inclined coal-measure strata (CMS) can provide essential insights for mechanical anisotropy and failure mechanism in rock engineering. This paper established a three-dimensional (3D) CMS model using the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) considering the inclination angles (0 degrees-90 degrees) and interfacial strengths (high/moderate/low). The mechanical properties, stress evolutions, and failure patterns of the sandstone-coal-sandstone (SCS) combination and mudstone-coal-mudstone (MCM) combination are investigated under uniaxial compressive conditions. Results reveal that the uniaxial compressive strength (UCS) and elastic modulus (E) of the CMS initially decrease (0 degrees-60 degrees) and then increase (60 degrees-90 degrees) with the inclination angle increases. With the interfacial strength decreases, the UCS of the CMS gradually declines, while the E remains relatively constant. Moreover, the variation in the UCS of the CMS with inclination angles changes from a V-shaped curve to a U-shaped curve as the interfacial strength decreases, accompanied by an increase in the mechanical anisotropy. The lateral stress state on both sides of the coal-rock interface changes at 60 degrees in the sigma xx direction, resulting in the lateral tensile stress in the coal layer, while the lateral compressive stress in the sandstone/mudstone layer. Within the CMS, shear-dominated failure exhibits in the coal layer, while tensile-dominated failure displays in the sandstone/mudstone layer. Four typical failure patterns can be observed in the CMS: coal-rock combined failure, coal layer separate failure, interfacial-dominated failure, and coal-rock-interface combined failure. With the interfacial strength decreases, the interfacial-dominated failure becomes more prominent. The key findings of this paper can offer fundamental insights into mechanical responses a
[44] Xudong Chen,Andrew H. C. Chan .FEM, DEM and FDEM applications on impact fracture of glass and laminated glass – a review[J].Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers - Engineering and Computational Mechanics,2024,177 (3):102-112,Elsevier Science
摘要：Structural glass components are prevalently used in engineering. Due to the brittle nature, glass or laminated glass may fracture during an impact action, and the subsequent flying fragments may spread over a wide range, resulting in human injuries and asset losses. In this article, the authors aimed at providing a comprehensive review concerning the numerical applications on the impact fracture of glass and laminated glass, giving emphasis to the literatures published in the last two decades. Relevant numerical applications employing the finite element method (including element deletion method, extended finite element method and some other continuum-based approaches), discrete element method and combined finite-discrete element method were reviewed in-depth, and features of the simulations were summarised. Discussions on the impact fracture characteristics from different computational approaches were performed. Insights into the accuracy, efficiency, ease of implementation and range of applicability were also provided. This review is meant for the rapid and beneficial understanding towards the impact fracture mechanism of glass and laminated glass.
[45] Xia, Binwei,Zhang, Xingguo,Ma, Zikun ,等.Numerical simulation of multiple hydraulic fracture propagation in heterogeneous coal reservoirs based on combined finite-discrete element method[J].Frontiers in Earth Science,2024,12 ,FRONTIERS MEDIA SA
摘要：Multi-stage fracturing in Horizontal well increases the permeability of coalbed methane by generating multiple fractures. However, the heterogeneity of coal reservoirs is a crucial factor that cannot be ignored in the study of multiple hydraulic fracture propagation. Therefore, we established a two-dimensional model for multiple hydraulic fracture propagation based on the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) and assigned a Weibull distribution function to the heterogeneity of the physical parameters of the cohesive elements in the model. The objective was to simulate and study the fracture propagation law of multi-cluster fracturing in horizontal wells in heterogeneous coal reservoirs. The research results indicated that: 1) as the heterogeneity of the coal reservoir weakened, the deflection angle of the main fracture increased. More secondary fractures were generated in the coal reservoir, leading to significant discontinuity. 2) The fracturing disturbance area was always concentrated at the tip of the main fracture, with a double wing shape. However, the fracturing disturbance areas at the tips of multiple main fractures could easily converge, with a square shape;3) It is recommended to use a moderate injection rate and increase the perforation spacing appropriately when hydraulic fracturing is carried out in coal reservoirs with a heterogeneity coefficient m=5.
[46] Lei Sun,Xuhai Tang,Kareem Ramzy Aboayanah ,等.A coupled cryogenic thermo-hydro-mechanical model for frozen medium:Theory and implementation in FDEM[J].Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering,2024,16 (11):4335-4353,Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：This paper presents the development of a coupled modeling approach to simulate cryogenic thermo-hydro-mechanical(THM)processes associated with a freezing medium,which is then implemented in the combined finite-discrete element method code(FDEM)for multi-physics *** governing equations are deduced based on energy and mass conservation,and static equilibrium equations,considering water/ice phase change,where the strong couplings between multi-fields are supplemented by critical coupling parameters(*** water content,permeability,and thermal conductivity).The proposed model is validated against laboratory and field *** show that the cryogenic THM model can well predict the evolution of strongly coupled processes observed in frozen media(*** transfer,water migration,and frost heave deformation),while also capturing,as emergent properties of the model,important phenomena(*** heat,cryogenic suction,ice expansion and distinct three-zone distribution)caused by water/ice phase change at laboratory and field scales,which are difficult to be all revealed by existing THM *** novel modeling framework presents a gateway to further understanding and predicting the multi-physical coupling behavior of frozen media in cold regions.
[47] He Liu,Panpan Zhu,Quansheng Liu ,等.A novel hybrid contact detection algorithm for 2D FDEM: Balancing efficiency and memory consumption[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2025,178 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, a novel hybrid contact detection algorithm, AGS (Adaptive grid-based search) &amp; GJK (Gilbert-Johnson-Keerthi), is proposed to accelerate 2D FDEM (Combined finite-discrete element method) simulations. AGS algorithm maintains computational efficiency comparable to traditional broad search methods based on uniform grid decomposition, while significantly reducing memory consumption by utilizing only effective grid cells in identifying potential contact pairs. Additionally, a modified GJK algorithm with specific initial search direction is employed for contact resolution, which is not only easy to implement but also more efficient than SAT (Separation Axis Theorem). Compared·to existing FDEM algorithms like NBS (Non-binary Search) and GGS (Global Grid-based Search) &amp; SAT (Separation Axis Theorem), the proposed algorithm effectively overcomes their limitations, offering high computational efficiency, low memory consumption, and reduced sensitivity to mesh size. The effectiveness of the proposed algorithm is validated through multiple numerical cases, demonstrating its suitability for both quasi-static and dynamic simulations. Notably, in the numerical cases examined, the algorithm achieves a speed-up ratio of 2.76 at case scale compared to NBS, and saves 37.8 % in memory consumption compared to GGS &amp; SAT. Furthermore, the algorithm is highly versatile and can potentially be extended to DEM (Discrete Element Method) applications involving other convex-shaped particles.
[48] 邓鹏海,刘泉声,黄兴 .基于Weibull分布的非均质隧洞围岩破裂碎胀FDEM数值模拟研究[J].工程力学,2024,41 (7):40-59
摘要：岩石材料具有非均质特征,矿物颗粒和胶结材料强度在统计学上服从Weibull分布。基于有限元-离散元耦合数值模拟方法(FDEM)提出了三角形单元弹性模量和四边形节理单元强度服从Weibull分布的参数赋值流程,随后研究了非均质岩样在单轴压缩、三轴压缩和巴西劈裂下的力学特征和破坏行为,最后对非均质隧洞围岩在高应力下的破裂碎胀大变形机制进行了模拟研究。结果表明:提出的随机参数赋值方法可建立不同弹性模量三角形单元数目服从Weibull分布、且空间分布具有随机性的FDEM数值模型;非均质岩样单轴抗压强度、三轴抗压强度、巴西劈裂抗拉强度、等效粘聚力和等效内摩擦角随着非均质度m的增大,均呈指数增大,并向均质材料逼近;高应力非均质隧洞围岩随着m的增大,裂隙网络形态变化不大,均以共轭剪切破裂为主,并伴随少量拉伸裂隙,但围岩破坏程度和裂隙扩展范围呈指数降低。
[49] Haoyu Han,Lanjianzhi Xu,Hongyuan Liu ,等.FDEM modeling of the fracture, fragmentation and collapse process of rock masses with pre-existing joints by smooth blasting during deep tunnelling[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2026,191 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, an in-house combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) code is further developed and applied to investigate the fracture, fragmentation and collapse process of rock mass induced by smooth blasting during the excavation of a deep-buried tunnel with the presence of high in-situ stresses and complex pre-existing joints. The simulation approach in this study enables the modeling of the transition from continuous to discontinuous behavior of rock, the explosive-rock interaction via gas pressure variation and simplified gas flow model, and the incorporation of pre-existing joints with various lengths, dip angles, spacings and connectivity rates. The blasting-induced stress redistribution and the corresponding rock fracture, fragmentation and collapse process on site are simulated, which vividly replicate the formation of smooth tunnel sidewalls and the occurrence of rock collapse at the tunnel crown area incorporating pre-existing joints. The simulated rock collapse extent at the tunnel roof corresponds well with that from field observations. Furthermore, with the setup of various modeling cases, the effects of in-situ stresses, joint distributions and initiation time delay errors on the fracture propagation behavior in the excavation damaged zone (EDZ) are investigated in detail. The complex mechanisms regarding the critical roles of these three factors in the fracture propagation and EDZ development process are highlighted. The FDEM code in this study is expected to serve for the prevention or mitigation of the potential rock collapse induced by blasting excavation under the combined effects of in-situ stresses, blasting operation and geological structures.
[50] Sun, Lei,Tang, Xuhai,Aboayanah, Kareem Ramzy ,等.Coupled hydro-mechanical two-phase flow model in fractured porous medium with the combined finite-discrete element method[J].Engineering with Computers,2024,40 (4):2513-2535,SPRINGER
摘要：This paper presents a time-explicit, fully coupled, hydro-mechanical model to simulate the two-phase flow process in fractured porous media, considering the geomechanical effect. Two solvers are developed, and mutual hydro/mechanical interactions are considered: (i) a novel finite volume discrete fracture-matrix model (FV-DFM) for two-phase flow, through both pores and fractures;and (ii) a combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) for mechanical responses (e.g., deformation and fracturing). Particularly, a novel two-phase exchange flow model is applied at the matrix-fracture interface, which overcomes the difficulty in realistically capturing the discontinuity (e.g., pressure, saturation, and normal flux) across fractures. Meanwhile, non-uniform time steps of fracture and matrix flow are adopted to improve computational efficiency while maintaining accuracy. The performance of the proposed model is validated against existing results and applied to a practical waterflooding process considering fracture propagation. Results show that the model can well predict the two-phase flow process (e.g., pressure/saturation field, reservoir recovery) in fractured reservoirs, and reveal the important HM coupled effect on the flow process (e.g., the stress-dependent permeability and fracture propagation), with important implication for hydrocarbon reservoirs and CO2 geological storage.