[1] Zhongwen Yue,Jun Zhou,Chun Feng ,等.Coupling of material point and continuum discontinuum element methods for simulating blast-induced fractures in rock[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2022,144 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A rock blasting simulation method is proposed that couples the material point method (MPM) and continuum discontinuum element method (CDEM). Blast-induced rock fractures are captured by the CDEM using normal and shear springs, and the explosive detonation is simulated by the MPM with a Jones-Wilkins-Lee equation of state. A particle–surface/edge contact method is introduced into the MPM-CDEM to calculate the interaction between the detonation products and rock medium. Three numerical examples are presented to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method. The fracture degree is represented as the ratio of the number of fractured springs to the total number of springs, and is used to analyze the evolution of shear and tension cracks under blasting. The simulation results show that the proposed numerical method well simulates blast-induced rock fractures and considers both progressive rock fracturing and the real explosive detonation. In particular, the expansion of the detonation gas, crushed zone around the blasthole, radial cracks, and effects of pre-existing stress on the blast-induced fractures are all successfully simulated. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
[2] 白雪元,王学滨,刘桐辛 .考虑单元劈裂的流-固耦合连续-非连续方法及定向水力压裂模拟[J].计算力学学报,2022,39 (5):633-640
摘要：为了更真实地模拟水力压裂过程中的岩石变形、裂缝扩展及流体流动,在自主开发的拉格朗日元与离散元耦合的连续-非连续方法的基础上,发展了一种流-固耦合方法。在该方法中,裂缝可沿四边形单元对角线和单元边界扩展,流体流动满足立方定律。通过与单一裂缝非稳态渗流模型及KGD模型的理论解进行对比,验证了该方法的正确性。由定向射孔水力压裂的模拟结果可以发现,(1)距离射孔越远,流体压力越小;随着时间的增加,裂缝中流体压力降低。(2)随着射孔角度的增加,裂缝起裂和扩展过程中的流体压力及转向距离增加;随着x方向水平应力的增加,裂缝起裂和扩展过程中的流体压力增加;两个方向水平应力之差越大,裂缝转向距离越小。(3)随着时间的增加,裂缝区段数目的增速变慢,这与裂缝体积增加变快有关。
[3] Bai, Xue-Yuan,Wang, Xue-Bin,Liu, Tong-Xin .A fluid-solid coupling continuum-discontinuum method considering element splitting and simulation of directional hydraulic fracturing[J].计算力学学报,2022,39 (5):633-640,Editorial Office of Chinese Journal of Computational Mechanics
摘要：In order to simulate rock deformations, fracture propagations and fluid flows, a fluid-solid coupling method was developed based on the method that combines the Lagrangian element method and discrete element method. In this method, fractures can propagate along diagonal lines and edges of quadrilateral elements, and fluid flows according to the cubic law. This method was verified by comparing the present results with the theoretical results of the unsteady seepage model with a single fracture and the KGD model. The following results were found from the simulations of hydraulic fracturing containing oriented perforations. (1) With the increase of the distance far away from the perforation, fluid pressures decrease;with the increase of time, fluid pressures in fractures decrease. (2) With the increase of the perforation angle, fluid pressures corresponding to the fracture initiation increase, fluid pressures during the process of the fracture propagation increase, and the turning distances of fractures increase;with the increase of the horizontal stress in the x-direction, fluid pressures corresponding to the fracture initiation increase, and fluid pressures during the process of the fracture propagation increase;the larger the difference between the two horizontal stresses, the smaller the turning distances of fractures. (3) With the increase of time, the number of fracture segments increases, but their increasing speeds decrease, which is related to the increase of the fracture volume. © 2022 Editorial Office of Chinese Journal of Computational Mechanics. All rights reserved.
[4] 钟启明,李宇,黄健 ,等.滑坡堵江过程数值模拟研究进展[J].水利水电科技进展,2025,45 (5):47-55,140
摘要：鉴于我国西南高山峡谷地区滑坡堵江事件呈多发频发态势,从滑坡堵江物理过程出发,系统综述了连续介质力学方法、非连续介质力学方法及耦合方法在滑坡堵江过程数值模拟中的研究进展,重点分析了这些方法在计算精度、计算效率、适用范围等方面的优势与不足,并对其在典型工程案例中的应用进行了评述。在此基础上,总结了滑坡堵江过程数值模拟当前面临的关键技术瓶颈,如高效计算、多尺度建模、参数不确定性处理和耦合稳定性问题,并提出了高性能计算平台、多尺度耦合建模、智能参数反演和不确定性量化等未来研究方向。
[5] Xinguang Zhu,Chenxi Ding,Zhe Sui ,等.Rock fracture mechanism of buffer blasting with cushion layer at the borehole bottom[J].International Journal of Minerals,Metallurgy and Materials,2025,32 (2):325-334,University of Science and Technology Beijing
摘要：This study primarily investigates the rock fracture mechanism of bottom cushion layer blasting and explores the effects of the bottom cushion layer on rock *** involves analyses of the evolution patterns of blasting stress,characteristics of crack distribution,and rock fracture features in the ***,blasting model experiments were carried out using the dynamic caustics principle to investigate the influence of bottom cushion layers and initiation methods on the integrity of the bottom rock *** experimental results indicate that the combined use of bottom cushion layers and inverse initiation effectively protects the integrity of the bottom rock ***,the process of stress wave propagation and dynamic crack propagation in rocks was simulated using the continuum-discontinuum element method(CDEM)and the Landau explosion source model,with varying thicknesses of bottom cushion *** numerical simulation results indicate that with increasing cushion thickness,the absorption of energy generated by the explosion becomes more pronounced,resulting in fewer cracks in the bottom rock *** illustrates the positive role of the cushion layer in protecting the integrity of the bottom rock mass.
[6] 郭天魁,王继伟,翟成 ,等.热应力和天然裂缝影响下干热岩水力裂缝扩展机制研究[J].岩石力学与工程学报,2025,44 (4):810-826
摘要：明确热应力和天然裂缝影响下的干热岩储层水力裂缝扩展机制对有效指导水力压裂施工设计和高效开发地热能具有积极意义。首先应用自主研发的高温真三轴水力压裂物理模拟实验系统开展花岗岩试样高温真三轴水力压裂实验，分析温度变化对花岗岩损伤破裂的影响。然后基于连续–非连续单元法建立一套场区尺度的三维热–流–固耦合裂缝扩展模拟方法，并通过三维裂缝扩展理论模型和高温水力压裂实验验证准确性。随后通过开展干热岩储层水力压裂数值模拟分析热应力和天然裂缝发育对干热岩水力裂缝扩展的影响规律。结果表明：注入冷水产生的诱导热应力可以降低储层岩石破裂压力和裂缝延伸压力、增加裂缝宽度和减小裂缝长度。随着岩样温度的升高，诱导热应力明显增强，物理模型实验和数值模拟中的岩石破裂压力均明显降低。考虑诱导热应力影响时，即使在较大水平地应力差和逼近角情况下水力裂缝也可以激活天然裂缝。相比不含天然裂缝的干热岩储层，含200条随机分布天然裂缝的储层改造体积增大63.8%。随着储层热膨胀系数增加，热应力的影响愈发显著，甚至在垂直主裂缝面方向产生次级裂缝，储层改造体积明显增大。
[7] Zhong, Qiming,Li, Yu,Huang, Jian ,等.Research progress on numerical simulation of landslide-induced river blockage process[J].Advances in Science and Technology of Water Resources,2025,45 (5):47-55and140,Editorial Board of Journal of Hohai University (Natural Sciences)
摘要：Given the frequent occurrence of landslide-induced river blockages in the alpine and canyon regions of southwestern China and based on the physical process of landslide-induced river blockage, this paper systematically reviews the research progress of continuum mechanics methods, discontinuum mechanics methods, and coupling methods in simulating landslide-induced river blockage processes, with a focus on analyzing the advantages and limitations of these methods in terms of computational accuracy, computational efficiency, and scope of application. The application of these methods in typical engineering cases is also discussed. Furthermore, the paper summarizes current key technical challenges in numerical simulation of landslide-induced river blockage processes, including high-performance computing, multi-scale modeling, parameter uncertainty handling, and coupling stability issues. Finally, future research directions are proposed, such as leveraging high-performance computing platforms, developing multi-scale coupled modeling techniques, advancing intelligent parameter inversion, and enhancing uncertainty quantification. © 2025, Editorial Board of Journal of Hohai University (Natural Sciences). All rights reserved.
[8] Yinjiang Nie,Yanlong Zheng,Jianchun Li .Modelling microwave fracturing of rocks: A continuum-discontinuum numerical approach[J].International Journal of Rock Mechanics and Mining Sciences,2025,186 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Existing numerical models cannot well reproduce the fracturing process and reveal the underlying mechanisms of rocks under microwave irradiation. In this work, the electromagnetic-thermal-mechanical multiphysics is decoupled into microwave-induced heating (continuum-based) and thermally-driven fracturing (discontinuum-based), with temperature serving as the key interlink. The rigid-body spring-subset network (RBSSN) model is proposed to calculate the progressive fracturing of rocks under open-ended microwave irradiation, where the individual contacts between adjacent tetrahedral blocks are disassembled into three hypothetical spring-subsets. To depict failure characteristics of large-scale rocks under microwave irradiation, a variable-sized block model is developed by densifying the rigid-blocks near the irradiation. This electromagnetic-thermal-mechanical decoupling framework effectively captures the microwave fracturing process, revealing that microwave irradiation induces tensile-dominant progressive failure and regionalized deterioration (localized damage and macroscopic radial fissure). The fracturing rate of rocks is time-dependent, progressing through silent, violent and slowdown periods of rupturing with extended exposure time. The reason why high-power microwave is more effective in promoting visible fractures under the identical input energy is analyzed by combining the thermal deformation theory and RBSSN simulation. It is found that, power levels should be kept within reasonable scopes to maximize fracturing effects as excessive power densities lead to initiation of numerous microcracks around the high temperature zone and susceptibility to spalling.
[9] Cheng Hsin Liu,Osama Massarweh,Ahmad S. Abushaikha .Numerical simulation on geosystem Thermal-Hydro-Mechanical-Chemical coupling: A review[J].Geoenergy Science and Engineering,2025,254 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：With the increasing demand for efficient and safe underground storage of CO<span class="math"><math><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">2</mn></mrow></msub></math></span> and hydrogen, understanding the complex interactions in geological systems has become a key research focus. This review paper provides a systematic overview of numerical simulation techniques used to model multi-field coupling in geosystems, particularly Thermal-Hydro-Mechanical-Chemical (THMC) interactions relevant to Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage (CCUS), and Underground Hydrogen Storage (UHS). The review summarizes the governing equations of THMC processes, including stress balance, mass conservation, energy transfer, and chemical reactions, while discussing various coupling schemes such as fully coupled, iterative, and loose approaches for their applicability and computational efficiency. Furthermore, different numerical methods, including continuum media and discontinuum media methods, are evaluated based on their strengths and limitations in multi-field coupling simulations. Challenges such as high computational costs, effective mesh strategies, handling non-linearities, and the integration of advanced technologies like machine learning are highlighted. The paper concludes by identifying key research gaps and suggesting future directions to enhance the accuracy and efficiency of THMC modeling in geological storage systems.
[10] Wenjun Cui,Zhijun Wu,Xuehai Wu ,等.A physically consistent coupling framework of the lattice Boltzmann method and the hybrid finite-discrete element method via a corrected immersed moving boundary scheme for improved fluid–solid interaction modeling[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2026,195 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Fluid-solid interaction (FSI) problems involving irregularly-shaped, deformable, and breakable solids pose significant challenges for existing numerical methods regarding accurate hydrodynamic force evaluation, characterization of solid deformability and breakage, and robust handling of complex geometry and multi-body interaction. We develop the first coupling framework of the lattice Boltzmann method and hybrid finite-discrete element method (LBM-FDEM) to address these issues. FDEM inherently captures the irregular geometry and continuum-dicontinuum transition of solids, and robustly handles multi-body interaction behaviors. Effective integration between the two solvers is achieved by a reformulated FDEM-tailored IMB scheme using nodal-based quantities aligning with FDEM’s degrees of freedom. The implemented scheme removes the non-physical contribution of the fictitious internal-fluid inertia in the classical IMB, and restores the interface traction equivalence, yielding physically-consistent and FDEM-compatible hydrodynamic forces. Validation cases show that the proposed LBM-FDEM framework eliminates the velocity-evolution lag for circular particles and amplitude-phase errors in trajectory and rotation for elliptical particles as predicted by classical IMB, and effectively reproduces drafting-kissing-tumbling (DKT) interactions of dual particles. Validation of the beam bending response to the cross-flow demonstrates that the established model is effective in modeling FSI problems involving large deformation. Subsequently, two representative FSI problems are investigated. The simulation of the flow-induced rupture of the beam successfully captures the entire continuum-discontinuum transition processes, i.e., crack initiation, propagation through the beam thickness, complete beam rupture, and carry-away of the upper beam fragment by the fluid flow. Irregular particle cluster sedimentation cases further reveal complex wake interference effects, viscosity-dependent dy
[11] 牛犇,张新伟,周玉 ,等.基于连续-非连续元降雨工况三维边坡稳定性分析[J].山东大学学报（工学版）,2023,53 (1):92-99
摘要：基于连续-非连续单元方法,引入应力场和渗流场数值耦合算法。根据兰营地区边坡地质条件建立高精度三维地质灾害模型,考虑不同降雨工况,对边坡稳定性进行分析,并与监测数据展开对比验证模型可靠性。研究表明,该边坡天然工况下安全系数为1.79,短时强降雨工况下边坡安全系数约为1.20,边坡破裂度为10.36%。经稳定性评价,该边坡在天然工况下处于基本稳定状态,在暴雨状态下处于欠稳定状态,存在一定失稳危险。
[12] Fu, W.,Radaković-Guzina, Z.,Damjanac, B. ,等.A Coupled Continuum-Discontinuum Framework for Thermal-Hydro-Mechanical Modeling of Deep Geological Repository for Nuclear Waste Disposal[M],2025,American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA)
摘要：Ensuring the long-term safety of nuclear repository centers around assessing the evolution of damage to the repository due to repository-induced and geological perturbations and evaluating the stability of the placement rooms for the duration of the regulatory period. The problem is challenging because it involves multiple physical processes. These processes are coupled and occur across temporal and spatial scales, including stress redistribution due to excavation, temperature-induced stresses after emplacement of the waste, groundwater pore pressure changes due to mechanical and temperature changes, and stress changes due to environmental loading. In this paper, we present a coupled continuum-discontinuum framework to merge near- and far-field models into one, keeping the needed spatial and temporal discretization levels, with the near-field model seamlessly incorporated into the far-field model for thermal-hydro-mechanical (THM) modeling analysis. The near-field model uses the distinct element methods (DEM) approach to evaluate damage and explicitly capture fracture formation and rock fragmentation, while providing full THM coupling. The far-field model uses a continuum approach to represent the behavior of the repository as a whole interacting with the in-situ geological environment mechanically, as well as capturing the hydro-thermal responses. Copyright © 2025 ARMA, American Rock Mechanics Association.
[13] Feng Han,Lixiang Wang,Minjie Wen ,等.Insights into the influence of 3D spiral perforation parameters on initiation pressure and fracture morphology: A comprehensive numerical study based on CDEM[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,323 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In hydraulic fracturing, extending fractures poses significant challenges due to the complex mechanical properties and crack propagation mechanisms involved. Spiral perforation hydraulic fracturing has emerged as an effective technique for developing low-permeability oil and gas reservoirs. However, research on the spiral perforation parameters that influence fracture extension remains limited, particularly concerning the transition from vertical to inclined wells. To address this gap, this study establishes a three-dimensional finite element model utilizing the continuum–discontinuum element method (CDEM) to elucidate the mechanical characteristics and behavior of fractures in these scenarios. By comparing simulation results with experimental data, we validate the accuracy of crack generation and extension based on damage mechanics. Under single-factor variation conditions, we quantitatively assess the effects of perforation diameter, depth, phase angle, density, wellbore diameter, and inclination angle on initiation pressure and fracture morphology. Our findings indicate that increases in perforation diameter or depth lead to decreased initiation pressure, facilitating greater fracture expansion and connectivity. Furthermore, a smaller inclination angle of perforation clusters is associated with more complex fracture propagation and pronounced turning behavior. This simulation analysis provides a systematic investigation into the mechanisms of crack generation and expansion from vertical to inclined wells, offering valuable insights for engineering applications.
[14] Yang Xia,Yongtao Yang,Hong Zheng ,等.Modelling of thermo-mechanical coupling effects in rock masses using an enriched nodal-based continuous-discontinuous deformation analysis method[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2025,433, Part B ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, the nodal-based continuous-discontinuous deformation analysis method (NCDDAM) is enriched to simulate the thermo-mechanical coupling effects in rock masses. A distance-based contact potential algorithm is first incorporated into NCDDAM to avoid the dependency of element shape and size on the calculation of contact force between different blocks. Then, three types of heat conduction models, which can deal with heat conduction in continuum and discontinuum, are incorporated into NCDDAM to simulate the heat conduction effects of rock masses. Finally, a two-way staggered algorithm is adopted in the context of NCDDAM to simulate the thermo-mechanical coupling effects in rock masses. Several benchmark examples are used to verify the correctness of the enriched NCDDAM in handling contact problems, heat conduction problems and thermo-mechanical coupling problems. The effects of time step size on the accuracy of NCDDAM for both thermal simulation and mechanical simulation are investigated detailly. In addition, the thermal cracking processes of rock masses for both experiment and engineering scales are simulated by the enriched NCDDAM. The numerical results indicate that the enriched NCDDAM is a powerful tool to simulate the thermo-mechanical coupling processes of rock masses.
[15] Huanning Hu,Liyun Yang,Chun Feng ,等.Development of BB model and investigation of P-wave propagation across jointed rock masses using CDEM[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,165 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper describes an advanced coupling method of finite element and discrete element called the Continuum-Discontinuum Element Method (CDEM). In this study, the Barton-Bandis model(BB model) for joint non-linear deformation is introduced into the CDEM to investigate the propagation of stress waves in jointed rock masses. The paper provides a detailed account of the development process of the BB model. Then, the developed model is utilized to simulate several representative cases of stress wave propagation in jointed rock masses, revealing the principles of stress wave propagation in jointed rock masses. The findings of this study demonstrate that the simulation results of the CDEM exhibit favorable consistency with experimental and theoretical results. This confirms the capability of the CDEM to accurately and effectively simulate stress wave propagation in jointed rock masses, thereby expanding the applicability of the CDEM. This research provides powerful support for further understanding and analysis of stress wave propagation problems in jointed rock masses. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[16] Qindong Lin,Xinguang Zhu,Yundan Gan ,等.Simulation-based personal fatality risk assessment due to the fragmentation hazard[J].Reliability Engineering & System Safety,2024,251 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In the military and chemical industry, modeling the fragmentation hazard field is of great significance in conducting the fatality risk assessment and calculating the safety distance for person. Although the ballistic methodology achieves the simulation of fragmentation flight trajectory, the acquisition of accurate initial projection data of fragmentation is a challenge. By coupling continuum-discontinuum element method and particle discrete element method, the fragmentation power algorithm is established, which achieves the integrated simulation of the initial projection data of fragmentation and the flight process of fragmentation. First, continuum-discontinuum element method is adopted to simulate the detonation products-driven fragmentation acceleration process by introducing the explosive detonation model, which achieves the acquisition of initial projection data of fragmentation. Then, the particle discrete element method is adopted to simulate the flight trajectory and power data of fragmentation. Based on the numerical and experimental result, the accuracy of fragmentation power algorithm is verified. In conjunction with the personal vulnerability model, a systematic numerical simulation framework is established to conduct the simulation-based personal fatality risk assessment when the metal-cased munition detonates accidentally, and the results indicate that the personal fatality risk due to the fragmentation becomes severer with the increase of munition curvature. © 2024
[17] 姚作强,冯春,刘天苹 .爆炸载荷下顺层台阶边坡渐进破坏规律数值分析[J].力学与实践,2023,45 (6):1363-1374
摘要：在连续–非连续单元方法(continuum-discontinuum element method,CDEM)框架中引入了岩体损伤破裂模型及爆生气体绝热膨胀模型,开展了爆炸载荷下顺层台阶边坡渐进破坏过程的数值分析,探讨了爆破距离、结构面产状、结构面强度等因素对边坡顺层结构面破坏特征的影响规律。结果表明,爆破作用下,顺层结构面将发生拉剪复合型破坏,结构面倾角越大、结构面强度越低、爆破距离越小,顺层边坡越容易出现失稳破坏。相较于爆破距离,结构面强度对结构面破裂面积的影响更大,随着结构面强度的增大,破裂面积迅速减小。
[18] Zongqing Zhou,Tian Gao,Jiwei Sun ,等.An FDM-DEM coupling method based on REV for stability analysis of tunnel surrounding rock[J].Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology,2024,152 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：An FDM-REV-DEM interface coupling method was proposed based on the concept of the representative elementary volume (REV). The coupling method was applied to the Shantou Bay submarine tunnel of Shantou-Shanwei High-speed Railway. In the simulation, the REV equivalent mechanical parameters were used. The disturbed zone of tunnel excavation was solved by discrete element method (DEM), and the undisturbed zone was solved by finite difference method (FDM). The force, displacement, and other information were transmitted between the two zones through the wall unit. The tunnel excavation process was simulated by this method, and the simulation results were compared with those of FDM, DEM and field monitoring. The results show that the coupling method can not only accurately characterize the displacement and stress distribution of surrounding rock, but also reveal the crack propagation process and large deformation. Thus, the method has a higher degree of accuracy than the traditional continuum method. Meanwhile, the calculation efficiency is 7.56 times that of DEM, which greatly reduces the calculation time. This study provides a continuum-discontinuum coupling numerical method with high efficiency and high precision for engineering-scale tunnel excavation simulation. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[19] Zhirong Jin,Xiaorui Hou,Yanrong Ge ,等.Numerical Simulation of Cross-Layer Propagation Mechanisms for Hydraulic Fractures in Deep Coal-Rock Formations[J].Energy Engineering,2026,123 (2):369-391,Tech Science Press
摘要：Hydraulic fracturing serves as a critical technology for reservoir stimulation in deep coalbed methane(CBM)development,where the mechanical properties of gangue layers exert a significant control on fracture propagation *** address the unclear mechanisms governing fracture penetration across coal-gangue interfaces,this study employs the Continuum-Discontinuum Element Method(CDEM)to simulate and analyze the vertical propagation of hydraulic fractures initiating within coal seams,based on geomechanical parameters derived from the deep Benxi Formation coal seams in the southeastern Ordos *** investigation systematically examines the influence of geological and operational parameters on cross-interfacial fracture *** demonstrate that vertical stress difference,elastic modulus contrast between coal and gangue layers,interfacial stress differential,and interfacial cohesion at coal-gangue interfaces are critical factors governing hydraulic fracture penetration through these *** vertical stress differences(>3 MPa)inhibit interfacial dilation,promoting predominant crosslayer fracture *** interfacial stress contrasts and enhanced interfacial cohesion facilitate fracture penetration across ***,smaller elastic modulus contrasts between coal and gangue correlate with increased interfacial ***,lower injection rates effectively suppress vertical fracture propagation in deep coal *** study elucidates the characteristics and mechanisms governing cross-layer fracture propagation in coal–rock composites with interbedded partings,and delineates the dynamic evolution laws and dominant controlling factors *** provide critical theoretical insights for the optimization of fracture design and the efficient development of deep coalbed methane reservoirs.
[20] Bo Zhang,Tiankui Guo,Ming Chen ,等.Effect of bedding planes and property contrast between layers on the propagation mechanism of hydraulic fracture height in shale reservoirs[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,175 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Bedding planes and property contrast between layers plays an important role in preventing hydraulic fracture height extension in shale reservoirs. However, the intrinsic causes of fracture containment have not been elucidated, and few studies have considered the effects of mixed factors on fracture height extension. Based on the continuum-discontinuum element method, a 3D hydraulic-mechanical coupling model was established to explore the influence mechanism of bedding planes, stress and modulus difference between layers, and mixing factors on fracture height extension in a transversely isotropic shale reservoir. Shear failure usually occurs preferentially when the fracture approaches the bedding plane, and the essential reason for fracture containment is that the shear slip on the bedding plane blunts the fracture tip. The stronger stress barrier formed by the higher minimum principal stress in adjacent formation effectively enables the fracture to terminate at the interlayer interface. The lower modulus in adjacent formation is more prone to rock initiation, but the larger elastic deformation absorbs the fracture tip stress and impedes height propagation. The comprehensive effect of bedding planes and property contrast between layers on fracture propagation is more complex than that of a single factor. When different factors have positive effects on fracture containment, the fracture is easier to terminate at the bedding plane. Otherwise, the dominant factor determines whether the fracture can be captured. No matter what the conditions, the pressure relief in the bedding plane can slow down the propagation rate. The findings can offer theoretical support for predicting fracture height during field fracturing in shale reservoirs. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[21] 黄国鹏,周福建,李明辉 ,等.基于CDEM的水平井压裂多缝均衡扩展模拟[J].西安石油大学学报（自然科学版）,2025,40 (4):71-79
摘要：为探讨在射孔冲蚀和应力干扰的双重作用下多裂缝均衡扩展的压裂参数优化方案,基于连续-非连续方法(CDEM)建立了考虑射孔冲蚀的应力-渗流-破裂多场耦合模型,探究了均匀降低各簇射孔数、非均匀射孔数、非均匀簇间距对射孔冲蚀及多裂缝均衡扩展的影响。结果表明:射孔冲蚀会加剧多裂缝的非均匀扩展,导致优势缝更加优势,而劣势缝更加劣势。减少各簇射孔数,采用非均匀射孔或布缝的方式可以平衡簇间应力干扰与射孔摩阻,从而促进多裂缝的均匀扩展,且降低各簇射孔数效果最为明显。研究结果可为水平井多裂缝均衡扩展参数优化提供一定的借鉴与指导。
[22] Wang Jiwei,Guo Tiankui,Chen Ming ,等.Numerical simulation of fracture propagation morphology in hydraulic fracturing development of geothermal reservoirs based on the CDEM-THM3D[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,172 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Reservoir fracturing stimulation is the key to constructing an enhanced geothermal system (EGS) for geothermal development in hot dry rock (HDR) reservoir. To clarify the crack propagation law of HDR fracturing, a 3D thermo-hydro-mechanical coupling simulation model of fracture propagation is produced based on the continuum–discontinuum element method (CDEM-THM3D). The correctness of the CDEM-THM3D model is validated by the theoretical solution of the nonisothermal soil consolidation model and Penny fracture model. Then, hydraulic fracturing numerical simulations are performed to analyse the influence of controlling variables on fracture propagation. The results indicate that the thermal tensile stress induced by injecting cold water can decrease reservoir fracture pressure and fracture extension pressure, causing an increasement in fracture width and a reduction in fracture length. Increasing thermal expansion coefficient and temperature difference enhances the effect of thermal stresses and even creates new branch fractures. A large elastic modulus favours an increase in fracture length, while large rock tensile strength and minimum horizontal stress lead to a decrease in fracture length. With increasing injection flow rate and fracturing fluid viscosity, the reservoir fracture pressure and the fracture width rise significantly, and the fracture easily breaks through the barrier of the high-stress compartment. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[23] Iman Vaezi,Keita Yoshioka,Silvia De Simone ,等.A review of thermo-hydro-mechanical modeling of coupled processes in fractured rock:From continuum to discontinuum perspective[J].Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering,2025,17 (11):7460-7488,Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：Coupled thermo-hydro-mechanical(THM)processes in fractured rock are playing a crucial role in geoscience and geoengineering *** and conceptually distinct approaches have emerged over the past decades in both continuum and discontinuum perspectives leading to significant progress in their comprehending and *** review paper offers an integrated perspective on existing modeling methodologies providing guidance for model selection based on the initial and boundary *** comparing various models,one can better assess the uncertainties in predictions,particularly those related to the conceptual *** review explores how these methodologies have significantlyenhanced the fundamental understanding of how fractures respond to fluid injection and production,and improved predictive capabilities pertaining to coupled processes within fractured *** emphasizes the importance of utilizing advanced computational technologies and thoroughly considering fundamental theories and principles established through past experimental evidence and practical *** selection and calibration of model parameters should be based on typical ranges and applied to the specificconditions of *** challenges arising from inherent heterogeneity and uncertainties,nonlinear THM coupled processes,scale dependence,and computational limitations in representing fieldscale fractures are *** potential advances on computational capacity calls for methodical conceptualization,mathematical modeling,selection of numerical solution strategies,implementation,and calibration to foster simulation outcomes that intricately reflectthe nuanced complexities of geological *** research efforts should focus on innovative approaches to tackle the hurdles and advance the state-of-the-art in this critical fieldof study.
[24] Lin, Qindong,Feng, Chun,Gan, Yundan ,等.Investigation of Dynamic Response of Concrete Slab Under Air Blast Loading[M].Lecture Notes in Civil Engineering,2025,518 :493-499,Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH
摘要：The dynamic response of concrete components under blast loading is of great military and social importance. Based on the continuum-discontinuum element method and fluid-structure coupling algorithm, the dynamic response of concrete slab is simulated and analyzed. First, a full-time numerical simulation is conducted. Then, the displacement and crack characteristics of concrete slab are analyzed quanti-tatively. The result indicates that the displacement is distributed in a circular pattern, and the maximum value is located at the center of concrete slab. The crack ratio increases gradually with the growth of time, while the growth rate is not a constant value. The fracture type of concrete slab includes tensile fracture and shear fracture, the interface at the center mainly undergoes shear fracture, and a small number of interface on the outside of cracked region suffers tensile fracture. © The Author(s) 2025.
[25] 程鹏达,冯春,常宁东 ,等.基于CDEM-MPM耦合的软地面车辆侵入规律研究[J].光学精密工程,2023,31 (5):707-718,科学出版社
摘要：载荷装备通过软土地面会引起了软土地面的变形,车轮侵入软土的深度是软土地面装备通行性评估的重要参数。本文提出了连续-非连续单元法(Continuum-discontinuum Element Method,CDEM)与物质点法(Material Point Meth⁃od,MPM)耦合的数值计算方法,建立了车轮-软土地面耦合模型,模拟了车轮和软土地面相互作用过程,定量分析车轮载重、软土弹性模量、软土强度参数(黏聚力、摩擦角)与软土表面压应力、侵入深度等参数之间的关系,获得车轮侵入软土深度的变化规律。研究表明:软土侵入深度与车轮载重接近线性正相关,相对改变量约为179%;与弹性模量非线性负相关,相对改变量约为23%;与强度参数非线性负相关,相对改变量约为164%。当车轮载重一定时,非线性变化的车轮侵入深度对软土强度参数更敏感。建立强度参数(黏聚力、摩擦角)和侵入深度变化的三维关系,可为软土地面装备通行性评估中现场待测的关键参数提供理论依据。
[26] Zihan Liu,Louis Ngai Yuen Wong .A new thermomechanical coupled FDEM model for geomaterials considering continuum-discontinuum transitions[J].Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering,2024,16 (11):4654-4668,Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：A new thermomechanical(TM)coupled finite-discrete element method(FDEM)model,incorporating heat conduction,thermal cracking,and contact heat transfer,has been proposed for both continuous and discontinuous *** model incorporates a heat conduction model that can accurately calculate the thermal field in continuousediscontinuous transition processes within a finite element framework.A modified contact heat transfer model is also included,which accounts for the entire contact area of discrete *** align with the finite strain theory utilized in the FDEM mechanics module,the TM coupling module in the model is based on the multiplicative decomposition of the deformation *** proposed model has been applied to various scenarios,including heat conduction in both continuous and discontinuous media during transient states,thermal-induced strain and stress,and thermal cracking *** thermal field calculation model and the TM coupling model have been validated by comparing the numerical results with experiment findings and analytical *** numerical cases demonstrate the reliability of the proposed model convincingly,making it suitable for use across a wide range of continuous and discontinuous media.
[27] Qindong Lin,Xinguang Zhu,Jianfei Yuan ,等.A hybridized continuum-discontinuum modeling for investigating the fracture and energy evolution characteristics of rock mass under sequential explosive detonation using a bilinear cohesive fracture model[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2023,162 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Modelling the dynamic mechanical response of rock mass under sequential explosive detonation, especially the fracture and energy evolution characteristics, is the key to optimizing the spatial distribution and initiation time interval of explosives. A hybridized continuum-discontinuum element method and energy statistics algorithm are implemented in this study to accurately investigate the rock dynamic response induced by sequential detonation loading. Based on the rock fracture status and the stress–strain curve of bilinear cohesive fracture model, an energy statistics algorithm considering all energy components is first proposed, and its accuracy and robustness are verified. Then, the continuum-discontinuum element method and energy statistics algorithm are adopted to simulate the dynamic response of rock mass under sequential detonation loading. The results indicate that the area of cracked interfaces generated by each explosive first increases and then decreases, which caused by explosive 2 is the largest, accounting for 38.19%. Due to the damage to rock caused by the previous detonation loading, the rock around explosive 1 mainly undergoes shear fracture, while the rock around explosives 2 and 3 mainly undergoes tensile fracture. The change trends of various energy components are different, and the explosion energy is mainly converted into friction energy and element kinetic energy. © 2023
[28] Xueyuan, Bai,Wang, Xuebin .A Method Combined a Continuum-Discontinuum and Sph Method for Simulating Fluid-Solid Interaction Problems[J].SSRN,2024,SSRN
摘要：A fluid-solid coupling method combined the continuum-discontinuum and smoothed particle hydrodynamics (SPH) method is proposed to simulate the interface fluid-solid coupling problems. In the proposed method, the cracking and motion of solid are simulated using the continuum-discontinuum method, and the flow of fluid is simulated using the SPH method. The advantages of grid method and meshless method are utilized. The cracking process of Brazilian disc with a notch, dam break, dam break through an elastic gate, wedge impacting on water and water inrush near the fault are simulated. Compared with experimental and numerical results obtained using other methods, the correctness of the proposed method is verified. For the wedge plate impacting on water model, after the wedge plate collided with the water, a pressure wave occur and propagate in the water, and the pressure in the pressure wave gradually decreases with the increase of time. For the water inrush near the fault model, after the aquiclude is broken, the water inrush occur, then the solid moves to the left and the fluid flows out. This method can be extended to the study of related fluid-solid interaction problems easily. © 2024, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[29] 孙四清,张庆利,杨帆 ,等.煤储层水力压裂裂缝扩展规律研究进展[J].煤炭科学技术,2026,54 (1):303-319
摘要：水力压裂是煤层气高效开发的关键技术,水力裂缝的分布和沟通情况直接影响压裂效果。围绕煤储层水力裂缝扩展机制,系统梳理了真三轴物理试验、数值模拟和现场验证3方面的研究进展,综述了各种地质控因和工程控因对裂缝扩展的影响,总结了现阶段煤储层水力裂缝扩展规律研究中面临的问题及发展趋势。得出以下结论:真三轴物理模拟试验系统可还原储层的地应力和温度条件,形成的多井型试件可模拟裸眼和定向射孔压裂,搭配声发射、电学和光学监测系统获取压后裂缝形态;用于裂缝扩展的数值模拟方法已从单一的有限元法、扩展有限元法、边界元法、离散元法延伸到将有限元和离散元结合的连续-非连续单元法,可模拟裂缝沿任意路径扩展,无需重新划分网格;现场验证能反映真实地质-工程耦合下的裂缝扩展形态,在验证物理试验和数值模拟成果的同时,揭示压裂技术应用时遇到的新问题;水力裂缝的扩展行为受到地应力、天然弱面、岩石力学参数、排量、压裂液黏度、压裂液用量、射孔参数等地质-工程因素的耦合作用。为深入探究超大规模体积压裂下裂缝的扩展规律,提出了完善可视化真三轴水力压裂模拟试验系统、开发多元融合的水力压力数值方法和构建裂缝主控因素敏感性定量分析与压裂参数智能决策一体化平台等发展建议。通过对现有文献的综合分析,总结了裂缝扩展的研究方法和影响因素,以期为后续研究和实践提供借鉴。
[30] Xin Wan,Shuyi Li,Tiankui Guo ,等.Numerical Simulation of Hydraulic Fracture Propagation in Deep Elasto-Plastic Reservoirs[J].Energy Engineering,2025,122 (8):3013-3039,Tech Science Press
摘要：Hydraulic fracturing is a key technology for the efficient development of deep oil and gas ***,fracture propagation behavior is influenced by rock elastoplasticity and thermal stress,making it difficult for traditional linear elastic models to accurately describe its dynamic *** address this,this study employs the Continuum-Discontinuum Element Method(CDEM),incorporating an elastoplastic constitutive model,thermo-hydro-mechanical(THM)coupling effects,and cohesive zone characteristics at the fracture tip to establish a numerical model for hydraulic fracture propagation in deep elastoplastic reservoirs.A systematic investigation was conducted into the effects of fluid viscosity,reservoir temperature,injection rate,elastic modulus,and horizontal stress difference on fracture *** findings show that a larger horizontal stress differential results in a more rectangular fracture geometry,a shorter fracture length,and a wider *** increase in elastic modulus has a negligible impact on fracture length but reduces fracture width,resulting in a rounded rectangular *** reservoir temperature induces thermal tensile stress around the fracture,mitigating in-situ stress effects and reducing both breakdown and propagation *** injection rates and fluid viscosity increase fracture initiation difficulty,promoting shorter but wider fractures with enhanced height growth beyond interlayer ***,horizontal stress significantly affects near-fracture plastic deformation:when the stress difference increases from 10 to 25 MPa,the maximum cumulative plastic strain in the surrounding rock rises by 66.67%.By integrating elastoplasticity and thermal stress effects,this study overcomes the limitations of conventional hydraulic fracturing simulations,offering novel insights for optimizing extraction strategies in deep unconventional reservoirs.
[31] 王升,韦芹,李利平 .隧道突水突泥灾变机理研究现状及发展趋势[J].现代隧道技术,2025,62 (4):15-25
摘要：为深化对隧道及地下工程突水突泥形成机制的科学认知,从地质发育特征及致灾构造分类、破坏失稳模式、最小安全厚度、多场信息演化规律4个层面,综述突水突泥灾害地质发育特征及前兆信息,确立在水压和爆破共同作用下防突岩体最小安全厚度计算方法,探讨数值模拟及模型试验等研究方法及其存在的问题,并展望多场耦合动力灾害机理研究的未来发展趋势。研究表明,突水突泥致灾构造可划分为岩溶类、断层类、特殊地质类;隧道施工临近突水突泥致灾构造时,会存在岩体呈铁锈状或湿化、剥落块增多、渗流水量增大且含泥砂等地质前兆;突水突泥发生时,岩体温度、渗压、电阻率等参数突降,微震、位移等参数突增;连续-非连续多尺度流固耦合模拟分析方法、真三轴地质力学可视化物理模型试验技术和基于人工智能解译多源异构前兆信息的融合分析是未来灾变演化机理研究的发展方向。
[32] Li, Qingwen,Pan, Chuangchuang,Zheng, Zhiming ,等.Impact of lateral confinement stiffness of CFRP sheets on macro-meso mechanical properties of axially compressed coal cylinders[J].煤炭学报,2025,50 (9):4342-4360,China Coal Society
摘要：To investigate the influence of lateral confinement stiffness of Carbon Fiber Reinforced Polymer (CFRP) sheets on the macro- and meso-mechanical properties of axially compressed coal cylinders, uniaxial compression tests were conducted on both plain coal cylinders and coal cylinders confined with a single layer of CFRP sheet using a WDW-300 universal testing machine. A continuum-discontinuum coupled numerical model for CFRP-confined coal cylinders was established based on the PFC3D−FLAC3D coupling simulation method, and its validity was verified through uniaxial compression tests. Based on this, the effects of lateral confinement stiffness of CFRP sheets on the characteristic stress, normal contact force fabric, and crack evolution of axially compressed coal cylinders were further investigated. The results indicate that: The peak stress increases with lateral confinement stiffness following a negative exponential function. As the lateral confinement stiffness increases, the anisotropy of the normal contact force fabric gradually weakens, and the differences in normal contact forces exhibit a negative exponential decay trend. The number of cracks increases with axial strain following an S-shaped Bessel function. In the post-peak instability stage, failure is dominated by shear cracks when the confinement stiffness is below 0.95 GPa, whereas tensile cracks prevail at higher stiffness levels. A new method for determining the yield stress, based on the second-order difference of the crack number with respect to time steps, was proposed. By analyzing the variation in the crack generation rate, it was found that the yield stress is concentrated between 82.54% and 89.85% of the peak stress level, and its evolution pattern is consistent with that of the peak stress. The findings provide theoretical insights for the application of CFRP materials in reinforcing abandoned coal pillars in goaf areas. © 2025 China Coal Society. All rights reserved.
[33] 李庆文,潘创创,郑志明 ,等.CFRP布侧向约束刚度对轴压煤圆柱宏细观力学性质的影响[J].煤炭学报,2025,50 (9):4342-4360
摘要：为研究碳纤维增强复合材料(Carbon Fiber Reinforced Polymer,CFRP)布侧向约束刚度对轴压煤圆柱宏细观力学性质的影响,利用WDW-300型万能试验机,开展了普通煤圆柱与单层CFRP布约束煤圆柱的单轴压缩试验。基于PFC^(3D)−FLAC^(3D)耦合模拟方法,建立了CFRP布约束煤圆柱的连续−非连续耦合数值模型,并通过单轴压缩试验验证了模型的有效性。基于此,进一步研究了CFRP布侧向约束刚度对轴压煤圆柱特征应力、法向接触力组构及裂纹演化的影响。结果表明:峰值应力随侧向约束刚度的增加呈负指数函数增长;随侧向约束刚度的提高,法向接触力组构的各向异性逐渐减弱,法向接触力差异呈负指数衰减趋势;裂纹数量随轴向应变的增加呈“S”形贝塞尔函数增长,峰后失稳阶段,当约束刚度小于0.95 GPa时,破坏以剪切裂纹为主,反之则以拉伸裂纹为主;提出了一种基于裂纹数随时步二阶差分确定屈服应力的新方法,通过分析裂纹数生成速率的变化,确定屈服应力集中分布在82.54%~89.85%水平,且其演化规律与峰值应力一致。研究结果可为CFRP材料在采空区遗留煤柱加固工程中的应用提供理论参考。
[34] Lin, Qindong,Chun, Feng,Chu, Zhuxin ,等.Mechanism of Mechanics-Energy-Heat Response Characteristics in Polymer Bonded Explosives Under Dynamic Load: A Unified Continuousdiscontinuous Simulation Study[J].SSRN,2026,SSRN
摘要：Studying the interplay among mechanical response, damage propagation, heat accumulation, and chemical reaction is essential for predicting the initiation and detonation of polymer bonded explosives (PBX). A simulation framework is proposed in this study to investigate the mechanical response and energy evolution characteristics of PBX, aiming to facilitate the research on the non-shock ignition mechanism. First, a mechanics-energy-heat simulation framework (MEHSF) is established by coupling the Continuum-Discontinuum Element Method (CDEM) and the energy-heat statistics method (EHSM). CDEM involves numerical simulation of mechanical response, EHSM focuses on numerical simulation of energy evolution and heat accumulation, and the data is automatically transferred between algorithms. An optimization algorithm for crystal-binder mesh is proposed to prevent computational termination due to the negative volume of high-aspect-ratio elements and to enhance the computational efficiency. Subsequently, the accuracy of EHSM in the dynamic case is verified based on a benchmark of a high-speed sphere hitting the smooth rigid wall. Finally, a split Hopkinson pressure bar test on PBX is simulated, and the mechanical response, energy evolution and heat accumulation characteristics of PBX are investigated. The results indicate that the crystal-binder interface undergoes the most severe damage, and the change trends of various energy components are closely related to the mechanical response characteristics of PBX. © 2026, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[35] Guo, Tiankui,Wang, Jiwei,Zhai, Cheng ,等.Mechanism of hydraulic fracture propagation in hot dry rocks under the influence of thermal stress and natural fractures[J].岩石力学与工程学报,2025,44 (4):810-826,Academia Sinica
摘要：Understanding the mechanism of hydraulic fracture propagation in hot-dry-rock(HDR) reservoirs, particularly under the influence of thermal stress and natural fractures, is crucial for effectively guiding hydraulic fracturing design and enhancing geothermal energy development. First, an independently developed high-temperature true triaxial hydraulic fracturing simulation experiment system is utilized to conduct high-temperature true triaxial hydraulic fracturing tests on granite samples, examining how variations in temperature influence rock fractures. And a 3D thermo-hydro-mechanical coupling model for fracture propagation simulation is created based on the continuum-discontinuum element method. The model's accuracy is verified through comparison with a 3D theoretical model of fracture propagation and high-temperature hydraulic fracturing experiments. Subsequently, numerical simulations of hydraulic fracturing in HDR reservoirs are performed to study the effects of thermal stress and natural fractures on the hydraulic fractures propagation. The results indicate that the induced thermal stress caused by the injected cold water can reduce the reservoir fracture pressure and fracture extension pressure, increase the fracture width and decrease the fracture length. As the temperature of the rock sample rises, the induced thermal stress increases considerably, leading to a significant decrease in the rock fracture pressure observed in both experiments and the numerical simulations. When accounting for the effect of induced thermal stress, hydraulic fracturing can active the natural fractures even when there are significant horizontal geostress differences and large approach angles. Compared with the HDR reservoir without natural fractures, the stimulation reservoir volume of the reservoir with 200 randomly distributed natural fractures increases by 63.8%. As the thermal expansion coefficient of the reservoir rises, the influence of thermal stress becomes increasingly pr
[36] 沈华骏 .隧洞穿越断层的连续-非连续数值方法研究[J].山西建筑,2022,48 (22):135-138
摘要：为研究隧洞穿越断层破碎带破坏机理及加固措施效果,对比分析了隧洞穿越断层破碎带常用数值分析方法的特点,基于连续-非连续耦合方法,应用FLAC及PFC刚性块单元实现隧洞穿越断层破碎带耦合分析模型快速建立,根据隧洞坍塌模拟与现场状况对比实现断层破碎带细观参数确定,并研究了超前管棚、注浆等加固措施在连续-非连续耦合分析中的实现方法,对某水电工程施工隧洞穿越断层破碎带坍塌破坏过程及加固措施效果进行分析,分析结果表明:确定的断层破碎带软黏结细观参数,反映了施工隧洞右拱肩遭遇断层时的坍塌过程及锚杆破折情况,采用“超前管棚+小导管注浆方式”作为后续隧洞穿越断层破碎带加固方案,有效控制了隧洞坍塌,降低了后续施工隧洞安全风险,超前管棚应力特征体现了超前支护在隧洞穿越断层破碎带时的重要作用。
[37] Jidu Yu,Jidong Zhao,Weijian Liang ,等.Multiscale modeling of coupled thermo-hydro-mechanical behavior in ice-bonded granular media subject to freeze-thaw cycles[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,171 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：We present a novel multiscale framework that integrates the single-point multiphase material point method (MPM) and the discrete element method (DEM) to model the complex freeze-thaw behavior of ice-bonded granular media. The proposed numerical framework is featured by (a) employing the continuum-based MPM to solve the macroscopic governing equations for granular systems involving thermo-hydro-mechanical (THM) coupling and phase transitions, and (b) using the grain-scale discontinuum-based DEM to capture the thermodynamically sensitive mechanical behaviors of ice-bonded granular media. The multiscale framework is constructed by attaching a DEM-based representative volume element (RVE) at each material point in MPM. This RVE serves as a live sample of each material point to track the state-dependent effective stress with respect to the local deformation and thermodynamic conditions like ice saturation, bridging the macroscopic phenomena and the underlying microstructural evolution. In particular, we implement a semi-implicit staggered integration scheme for the macroscale THM-coupled MPM to boost computational efficiency and enhance numerical stability. We also propose an innovative ice saturation-dependent bond contact to effectively reproduce the thermodynamically sensitive mechanical behaviors. The new multiscale framework is first benchmarked against analytical solutions for 1D non-isothermal consolidation problems. We then demonstrate its exceptional capability in simulating intricate freeze-thaw behavior of granular media through a boundary value problem involving cyclic freeze-thaw actions. Further cross-scale analyses reveal its potential in capturing key loading- and state-dependent THM responses with explainable microstructural mechanisms during complex freezing and thawing loading conditions. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[38] Xing, Wenbin,Wang, Hanpeng,Zhang, Bing ,等.Damage dynamics model of gas-bearing coal under dual disturbances and its application[J].International Journal of Mining Science and Technology,2026,Elsevier Science
摘要：<div class="abstract author" id="as005"><div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="sp0005">To address the critical gaps in modeling the failure of gas-bearing coal under realistic multi-source disturbances, this study developed, for the first time, a systematically integrated dual-disturbance damage mechanics model. The model uniquely synthesizes a modified Nishihara-NVPB creep framework with partitioned damage evolution laws to concurrently account for gas adsorption, long-term axial static stress, and the synergistic effects of superimposed cyclic and impact dynamic loads. The core innovation is this strategic damage-partitioning integration, where damage from gas and static load is embedded into the elastic element, and damage from dynamic disturbances is embedded into the viscous and plastic elements, enabling a unified representation of complex multi-factor coupling. This integrated constitutive model was successfully embedded into the GDEM continuum-discontinuum software. A full engineering-scale numerical simulation of a coal and gas outburst was conducted. The results, including the excavation outburst initiation distance, in-situ stress evolution at monitoring points, and outburst coal volume, showed high consistency with benchmark results from a large-scale physical simulation test. This work verifies the model’s reliability and applicability at the engineering scale and provides a novel analytical framework and computational tool for investigating the disaster mechanisms of coal and rock dynamic disasters under dual disturbances.</div></div> <div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="sp0005">To address the critical gaps in modeling the failure of gas-bearing coal under realistic multi-source disturbances, this study developed, for the first time, a systematically integrated dual-disturbance damage mechanics model. The model uniquely synthesizes a modified Nishihara-NVPB creep framework with partitioned damage evolution laws to concurrently account for gas adsorption, lon
[39] 侯慧珍,张耀辉,李栋广 ,等.基于连续-非连续单元法复合岩土体穿层预应力锚杆受力分析[J].科学技术与工程,2023,23 (18):7903-7912
摘要：边坡工程施工过程中,采用预应力锚杆施加预紧力可约束岩土体开挖后应力重分布作用产生的过大变形,增强岩土体自身强度。针对某边坡工程中预应力锚杆穿过多层岩土体的荷载传递及锚固承载特征问题,基于连续-非连续单元法(continuum discontinuum element method,CDEM)数值模拟方法,考虑复合岩土体中岩土层理结构面之间的非连续以及块体-杆件耦合计算问题,建立二维边坡复合岩土体桩锚结构数值模型,揭示复合岩土体中穿层预应力锚杆的受力特征。研究结果表明:岩土层与锚固体极限粘结强度标准值越大,产生的轴应变越小,轴力传递效应越弱,锚杆轴力衰减率越高;张拉第二、三根锚杆时,其杆体作用在张拉第一根锚杆之后岩土层自平衡后的应力场内,岩土体结构面产生的错动以及剪切蠕变导致预应力快速损失,其损失率比第一根锚杆大3%~4%;该边坡工程中锚固角度在25°左右最优,既能控制水平向受力,也能防止坡顶沉降,桩锚结构整体稳定性较好。耦合复合岩土体建模-桩锚结构承载-参数优化,深入研究复合岩土体中穿层预应力锚杆受力及其参数影响规律,研究结果将指导复合岩土体中桩锚结构设计与施工。
[40] Wang Jiwei,Guo Tiankui,Chen Ming ,等.Numerical study of the fracture propagation mechanism of staged methane deflagration fracturing for horizontal wells in shale gas reservoirs[J].Geoenergy Science and Engineering,2023,230 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The staged methane deflagration fracturing of horizontal wells is a new reservoir stimulation method serving the high-efficiency exploitation of shale gas reservoirs. To study the propagation mechanism of deflagration fracture, a multi-physics field coupling numerical model of deflagration fracturing considering the synergistic effects of stress impact and gas wedging is constructed based on the continuum-discontinuum element method (CDEM). The linear elastic constitutive and the tensile-shear composite constitutive models considering strain softening are applied to the block element and the interface element, respectively, and the cubic law is designated to describe the flow of explosion gas in the fracture element. The CDEM model is solved explicitly and iteratively by dynamic relaxation technology, and a calculation module of deflagration pressure is developed by programming. Then, numerical studies of staged methane deflagration fracturing in horizontal wells under different factors are performed. The results indicate that methane deflagration fracturing could overcome the stress concentration around the well, forming 5–8 main fractures of about 4.7 m in each section. Peak pressure has the most significant effect on the methane deflagration fracturing, with an influence degree of up to 2.72%. When the peak pressure increases from 150 MPa to 340 MPa, the reservoir fracture degree increases by 6.17% and the fracture half-length of σ<sub>H</sub> direction increases by 0.99 m. When the in-situ stress difference increases from 0 to 30 MPa, the main fracture distribution of the staged deflagration fracturing is more crowded and the fracture half-length can increase by about 1.1 m. The increase in the deflagration section number and the deflagration section spacing is conducive to increasing the reservoir fracture degree and the deflagration fracture range. The maximum fracture length in the σ<sub>H</sub> direction of each section is almost equal, which is useful for r
[41] Feng, Kai,Li, Wenjing,Nan, Xing ,等.Salt Cavern Thermal Damage Evolution Investigation Based on a Hybrid Continuum-Discrete Coupled Modeling[J].Sustainability,2023,15 (11),MDPI
摘要：The integrity and stability of salt caverns for natural gas storage are subjected to a gas cycling loading operation. The coupled effect of confining pressure and temperature on the response of the salt cavity surrounding the wall is essential to stability analysis. In this study, a hybrid continuum-discrete model accounting for the thermal-mechanical process is proposed to investigate the thermal-damage evolution mechanism towards a field case with blocks falling off the salt cavity. The salt cavity is modeled by continuum zones, and the potential damage zones are simulated by discrete particles. Three specimens at different locations around the surrounding wall are compared in the context of severe depressurization. The dynamic responses of rock salt, including temperature spatiotemporal variation, microscopic cracking patterns, and energy evolution exhibit spatial and confinement dependence. A series of numerical simulations were conducted to study the influence of microproperties and thermal properties. It is shown that the evolution of cracks is controlled by (1) the thermal-mechanical process (i.e., depressurization and retention at low pressure) and (2) the anomalous zone close to the brim of the salt cavity surrounding the wall. The zone far away from the marginal surrounding wall is less affected by temperature, and only the mechanical conditions control the development of cracks. This continuum/discontinuum approach provides an alternative method to investigate the progressive thermal damage and its microscopic mechanism.
[42] Zhao, Lanhao,Shao, Linyu,Mao, Jia ,等.A fracture model for the deformable spheropolygon-based discrete element method[J].Granular Matter,2022,24 (2):1-23,SPRINGER
摘要：A deformable spheropolygon-based discrete element method is developed to predict the evolution of fracture by coupling the finite element method (FEM) and the spheropolygon-based discrete element method (DEM). Within the framework of the coupling method, the spheropolygon-based DEM is adopted to capture the discontinuum behaviors, while the continuum behaviors are analyzed by the FEM. By introducing the fracture model of joint elements based on fracture mechanics, a continuous-discontinuous coupling approach for simulating the fracture of quasi-brittle materials is presented. The tensile failure is described with the fictitious crack model, meanwhile, the Mohr-Coulomb failure criterion with a tension cut-off is employed to determine the shear failure state. Finally, the results of numerical simulations indicate that this novel method is versatile in simulating the whole process of quasi-brittle materials from continuum to discontinuum, including the initiation and propagation of cracks, and the collision of fragments after the failure of brittle materials.
[43] 李晓光,李长洪,冯春 .一种块体–颗粒–杆件的耦合方法及其在隧道支护模拟中的应用[J].工程科学学报,2023,45 (6):1023-1033
摘要：为了模拟隧道开挖过程中边帮的失稳垮塌过程以及锚杆对隧道的支护过程,提出了一种基于罚弹簧的块体–颗粒–杆件的耦合方法.该耦合方法基于连续–非连续的数值模拟方法(CDEM),采用离散颗粒簇表征隧道周边松动圈以内的破碎岩体,采用块体单元表征松动圈以外的完整岩体,采用杆件单元描述锚杆及锚索等杆系类支护结构,采用插值耦合的方式实现杆件单元与离散颗粒及块体单元间力与位移的传递,从而实现高应力环境下隧道开挖失稳过程的模拟及支护效果的评价.颗粒与块体之间采用1根法向线性弹簧及2根切向线性弹簧进行耦合,法向弹簧引入拉伸断裂本构,切向弹簧引入Mohr–Coulomb脆性断裂本构.杆件与颗粒及杆件与块体之间的耦合模式基本一致,包含1根沿着杆件轴向的罚弹簧S_(gn)及1根垂直于杆件轴向的罚弹簧S_(gs),S_(gn)主要用于描述杆件与围岩之间的拉拔效应及推压效应,S_(gs)则主要用于描述杆件与围岩之间的侧向挤压效应.圆形盾构隧道弹性场分析、预应力锚杆加固矩形巷道模拟、全长连接锚杆对岩块的锚固作用分析、以及碎裂岩体中的隧道开挖支护效果分析等案例,证明了本文所述块体–颗粒–杆件耦合算法的准确性及合理性.
[44] 肖建成,周辉,卢景景 ,等.双轮铣槽机铣削过程及截齿入岩顺序优化研究[J].岩土力学,2022,43 (4):981-994,Biodiversity Research Center, Academia Sinica
摘要：双轮铣槽机(简称“双轮铣”)是地下连续墙的专业施工装备,布齿系统是其核心部件,其参数设计与破岩性能密切相关。基于连续-非连续单元法(CDEM),建立了铣轮铣削岩土体过程的三维仿真模拟方法。在此基础上,考虑自由面与铣削关联性等因素,对布齿系统截齿入岩顺序影响破岩性能机制进行了研究,建立了关联铣削条件下以预置相邻自由面数目为主要影响因素的入岩顺序数值概化模型。结果表明:(1)获得的铣轮铣削岩土体的铣削力与铣削深度曲线,验证了此数值模拟方法的正确性;(2)相比于完整岩体,具有单相邻预设自由面与双相邻预设自由面岩样的峰值荷载分别下降了32.5%与68.2%,破岩能耗分别下降了19.8%与56.6%;(3)布齿系统中双相邻预设自由面的截齿占总体截齿数目比值越大,布齿系统整体能耗越低,异构式布齿系统能耗低于顺序式。研究成果为完善双轮铣槽机破岩过程与布齿系统优化提供了基础。
[45] Cheng, Pengda,Feng, Chun,Chang, Ningdong ,等.Research on soft ground vehicle intrusion law based on CDEM-MPM coupling model[J].光学精密工程,2023,31 (5):707-718,Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：Vehicles with varying loads deform soft-soil grounds,and the depth of their wheel intrusion is a crucial parameter for evaluating vehicle trafficability on soft soil. This study introduces a novel method that combines the Continuum-Discontinuum Element Method(CDEM)and Material Point Method(MPM)to create a coupling model of wheel and soft-soil interaction and simulate their interaction process. The model analyzes the relationship between different variables,including the wheel load;elastic modulus,strength parameters(cohesion and friction angle),and surface stress of the soft soil;and intrusion depth,to quantify the law of wheel intrusion depth on soft soil. The results indicate that the intrusion depth posi⁃ tively correlates with the wheel load,with a relative variation of approximately 179%,and negatively cor⁃ relates with the elastic modulus and strength parameters in a non-linear manner,with relative variations of approximately 23% and 164%,respectively. When the wheel load is constant,the intrusion depth is more sensitive to the strength parameters of the soft soil. The three-dimensional relationship established be⁃ tween the strength parameters and intrusion depth provides a theoretical foundation for key parameter mea⁃ surements in evaluating vehicle trafficability on soft soil. © 2023 Chinese Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.
[46] Huang, Y.,Lei, Z.,Lipnikov, K. ,等.Modeling Coupled Thermo-Hydro-Mechanical-Chemical Processes in Subsurface Geological Media[M],2023,American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA)
摘要：The complex coupling interaction phenomena among rock mechanics, fluid flow, heat transfer and geochemical reactions has become a critical topic in complex subsurface systems including the production of unconventional oil and gas. In this paper, we introduce a fully coupled Thermo-Hydro-Mechanical-Chemical (THMC) framework that is being developed at Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL). The framework integrates four LANL-developed codes: HOSS, Amanzi, dfnWorks and InyanCC. HOSS simulates deformation of the rock matrix as well as the opening, closing and shear sliding in the discrete fractures (mechanics), while Amanzi solves subsurface multiphase flow and reactive transport, dfnWorks generates meshes with complex discrete fracture networks, and InyanCC links the mechanics and flow solvers while controlling the whole simulation processes. The advantages of this coupling framework are: 1) it is based on hybrid continuum-discontinuum approaches which overcomes the limitations seen with pure continuum assumptions;2) both mechanics and subsurface flow solvers are fully parallelized for distributed memory systems which allows the users to simulate large scale problems on HPC clusters. Different selected benchmarking problems are simulated using this THMC framework. The results show good agreement with the analytical solutions, which verifies the accuracy of the framework. © 2023 57th US Rock Mechanics/Geomechanics Symposium. All Rights Reserved.
[47] Yao, Zuoqiang,Feng, Chun,Liu, Tianping .NUMERICAL STUDY ON THE PROGRESSIVE FAILURE MECHANISM OF BEDDING STEP SLOPE UNDER EXPLOSIVE LOAD[J].力学与实践,2023,45 (6):1363-1374,Chinese Academy of Mechanics
摘要：Based on the framework of continuum−discontinuum element method (CDEM), the rock damage fracture model and explosion gas adiabatic expansion model are introduced. The numerical analysis of progressive failure process of bedding step slope under explosive load is carried out, and the influence of blasting distance, structural plane occurrence and structural plane strength on the failure characteristics of bedding step slope is discussed. The results show that under the action of blasting the tensile-shear composite failure will occur on the bedding structural plane. The larger the structural plane dip angle is, the lower the structural plane strength should be, and the smaller the blasting distance is, the greater the probability of failure of bedding slope will be. Compared with the blasting distance, the strength of structural plane has a greater influence on the fracture area. With the increase of strength, the fracture area decreases rapidly. © The Author(s) 2023.
[48] Li, Xiao-Guang,Li, Chang-Hong,Feng, Chun .A block–particle–bar coupled algorithm to simulate tunnel excavation and support[J].工程科学学报,2023,45 (6):1023-1033,Science Press
摘要：During tunnel excavation, the stress of the surrounding rock is redistributed, leading to a local stress concentration around the tunnel. In addition, blasting excavation and other factors lead to a strength reduction of rock mass around the tunnel and eventually form a relaxation fracture zone (loosening zone). If supporting measures are not adopted in time during tunnel excavation, the rock strength in the loosening zone will be further reduced and eventually lead to overall instability and collapse. To simulate the bolt/cable supporting effect on the loosening zone and surrounding intact rock, a block–particle–bar coupling algorithm based on penalty springs is proposed. This coupling algorithm is based on the continuum–discontinuum element method (CDEM). CDEM is a dynamic, explicit solution algorithm based on a generalized Lagrange system. A strict controlling equation is established by the Lagrange energy system, and an explicit iterative solution of the dynamic relaxation method is used to realize a unified description of continuous and discontinuous media. The progressive failure of a solid is analyzed through the fracture of the bond between the blocks or particles. Using CDEM, the entire process of the solid from continuous deformation to fracture and movement can be simulated. In the block–particle–bar coupled algorithm, discrete particle clusters are adopted to represent the broken rock mass inside the loosening zone around the tunnel, block elements are used to represent the intact rock mass outside the loosening region, and bar elements are introduced to describe the supporting structures, such as bolts and cables. A contact coupling mode is adopted between particles and blocks, one normal spring and two tangential springs are constructed, and brittle Mohr –Coulomb fracture constitutive law and tensile fracture constitutive law are introduced to represent contact behavior. To realize the transmission of force and displacement, the interpolation coupling
[49] Bowen Sun,Fei Han,Chun Feng ,等.Modeling of projectile penetrating fiber-reinforced concrete via the continuum discontinuum element method[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2022,276, Part B ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, the projectile penetrating fiber-reinforced concrete (FRC) is modeled and simulated by the continuum discontinuum element method (CDEM) and a fiber-block interpolation coupling algorithm. The Mohr–Coulomb constitutive model is applied to the blocks to calculate the block forces, and the Mohr–Coulomb criterion and the maximum tensile criterion are applied to estimate the failure of contact surfaces. Numerical simulations of projectiles penetrating plain concrete and FRC with 1 to 3 vol% are performed. We verify the validity of the model by predicting the crack morphology and penetration depth for plain concrete and FRC, which are in agreement with experimental results. Detailed images of crack surfaces in the concrete blocks caused by projectile penetration are included. The effects of fiber content on crack width are analyzed. The results indicate that the normalized widths of the cracks approximately satisfy the Weibull distribution. Compared with plain concrete, the addition of fibers results in a reduction in both the expectation and variance of crack widths. However, the degree of reduction weakens as fiber content increased. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
[50] Yuan, Jianfei,Feng, Chun,Lin, Qindong ,等.The influence of detonation interval on the dynamic response of underground fortification[M].Journal of Physics: Conference Series,2023,2535 (1),Institute of Physics
摘要：It is of great theoretical significance and engineering application to investigate the influence of detonation interval on the dynamic response of underground fortification under blasting loading. First, a numerical simulation of underground fortification under blast loading is carried out based on the continuum-discontinuum element method. Then, the displacement characteristic of underground fortification is analyzed. Finally, the fracture characteristic of underground fortification is analyzed. The results indicate that the increasing trend of displacement at the top boundary gradually decays with the increase of detonation interval. The final value of displacement at the left boundary first increases and then decreases with the increase of detonation interval. With the increase in detonation interval, the proportion of concrete undergoing shear fracture at the top, left, and right boundary gradually decreases. © Published under licence by IOP Publishing Ltd.