[1] 黄鹏,陈旭东 .砌体墙抗震性能的有限离散元分析[J].土木工程与绿色建筑,2023
摘要：作为砌体结构的主要承力构件,砌体墙在地震作用下的力学行为,具有高度的非线性和非连续性。有限离散元法(combined finite-discrete element method,简称FDEM)是近年来比较流行的一种数值方法,其将结构视为一系列离散体的集合,在分析结构的非连续力学行为方面有其独特的优势。文章采用FDEM研究砌体墙在水平地震作用下的力学行为,验证了FDEM分析砌体墙抗震性能的可靠性和鲁棒性,为进一步对复杂砌体结构的抗震性能开展FDEM分析建立了基础。
[2] Haoyu Han,Yihao Qu,Hongyuan Liu ,等.Analysis of toppling failure mechanisms in anti-dip slopes based on FDEM simulation[J].Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory,2026,147 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：An in-house combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is implemented to analyze the toppling failure process of anti-dip slopes. A strength reduction method integrated with kinetic energy monitoring and failure surface detection is applied to not only simulate the progressive slope failure process but also reveal complex failure mechanisms in anti-dip slopes. The FDEM is first validated through reproducing the through-going failure surface formation stage and the flexural toppling stage observed in laboratory experiments on anti-dip slope instabilities. Then, 23 numerical models are built to investigate the effects of slope geometry, thick layer position and cross-joint on the stability of anti-dip slopes. It is concluded that increasing slope angle leads to increasing failure surface depth and system kinetic energy but, decreasing factor of safety (FOS). Increasing rock layer inclination results in decreasing failure surface inclination but increasing failure surface depth. Increasing rock layer thickness, however, exerts limited effects on slope failure characteristics but enhances FOS. Furthermore, thick layer position has rather limited influence on FOS while cross-joints dominate the failure mode of anti-dip slopes. The numerical findings are expected to advance our understanding of complex failure mechanisms in anti-dip slopes and provide theoretical foundations for relevant slope stability assessment and prediction.
[3] Richao Cong,Ruiyue Yang,Yanjin Gong ,等.Numerical investigation of mechanical responses and failure features of coal measure strata using combined finite-discrete element method[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,171 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Investigating the mechanical responses and failure features of the deep coal measure strata (CMS) is essential for designing hydraulic fracturing treatments and preventing geological dynamic hazards in underground engineering. In this paper, a three-dimensional CMS model is established by the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). The mechanical properties, stress evolutions and failure features of the CMS with different lithological combinations (sandstone-coal-sandstone (SCS), sandstone-coal-mudstone (SCM) and mudstone-coal-mudstone (MCM)) and thickness ratios are investigated under the uniaxial compressive condition. Results indicate that the SCS combination exhibits the highest uniaxial compressive strength (UCS) and elastic modulus, followed by the SCM and MCM combinations. The mechanical properties of the CMS are predominantly determined by the softer coal layer. The mechanical contrasts in elastic modulus and Poisson's ratio between adjacent layers cause the generation of additional compressive stress in the softer layer and additional tensile stress in the stiffer layer. Therefore, the softer coal layer exhibits the shear-dominated failure pattern while the stiffer sandstone/mudstone layer displays the tensile-dominated failure pattern in the CMS. Furthermore, as the thickness ratio of the coal layer increases, the UCS, elastic modulus, and interfacial constraint stress decrease in the CMS. Additionally, the UCS and stress–strain relationship in the post-peak stage exhibit the noticeable size effect, whereas the mechanical behaviors in the pre-peak stage and the ultimate fracture patterns show the opposite. The elastic modulus and interfacial constraint stress obtained by the FDEM simulation match well with those calculated by theoretical models. The key findings of this paper can provide fundamental understanding and reliable parameters for multi-scale geomechanical modeling in petroleum and mining engineering. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[4] Wang, Zhongwei,Li, Feng,Mei, Guodong .OpenMP Parallel Finite-Discrete Element Method for Modeling Excavation Support with Rockbolt and Grouting[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2024,57 (5):3635-3657,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：In the past, the number of CPU cores/threads was usually less than 8/16;now, the maximum number is 128/256. As a CPU-based parallel method, OpenMP has an increasing advantage with the increase in CPU cores and threads. A parallel combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) for modeling underground excavation and rock reinforcement using OpenMP is implemented. Its computational performance is validated in the two advanced CPUs: AMD Ryzen Threadripper PRO 5995WX (64/128 cores/threads);and 2 x AMD EPYC 7T83 (128/256 cores/threads). Then, its ability in simulating tunnel excavation under rockbolt-shotcrete-grouting support is implemented using the novel solid bolt model, which can explicitly capture the interaction between bolt, grout, and rock. The parallel performance validation of the uniaxial compression test shows: (i) for the speedup ratio, the OpenMP-based parallel FDEM obtains maximum speedup ratios of 30 (33 k elements) and 41 (3304 k elements) on the Threadripper, and 31 and 43 on the 2 x EPYC, respectively;(ii) for the scalability of speedup ratio, when the number of threads used is less than 128, the speedup ratio is always increasing with the increase of the number of threads;(iii) for the stability of speedup ratio, it has a stable speedup ratio, regardless of whether the rock is pre- or post-fractured. A parallel FDEM for modeling underground excavation and rock reinforcement using OpenMP is *** computational efficiency is validated in the two advanced CPUs: AMD Ryzen Threadripper PRO 5995WX;and 2 x AMD EPYC 7T83 (128/256 cores/threads).Its ability in simulating rockbolt-shotcrete-grouting support is implemented using the novel solid bolt *** obtains maximum speedup ratios of 30 (33 k elements) and 41 (3304 k elements) on the Threadripper, and 31 and 43 on the 2 x *** has good scalability and stability of speedup ratio, regardless of whether the rock is pre- or post-fractured.
[5] Wu, Di,Min, Zhenghui,Ding, Gang ,等.Development of a GPGPU-parallelized 3-D FDEM with a novel implementation of the discrete fracture network generation and recognition algorithm[M],2025,American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA)
摘要：Discrete fractures exist widely in the natural environment. After interacting with each other, these fractures form the complex discrete fracture network (DFN). The DFN segments the rock into pieces and forms complex macro or micro structures in the rock and thus influences the whole mechanical properties of the rock mass. However, as one of the novel hybrid methods for simulating the solids fracturing, the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM), is still lacking an effective algorithm to generate and recognize the DFN in the model. In this scenario, this paper proposes a novel algorithm to generate and recognize the discrete fracture network in the 3-dimensional (3-D) FDEM based on the general-purpose graphics processing unit (GPGPU). The newly proposed algorithm can generate the 3-D disc-shape DFN with ease after specifying the properties of the DFN. Verifications of generating and recognizing a single pre-setting DFN are carried out to prove the correctness and effectiveness of the newly developed algorithm. Single-hole blasting simulations in the cubic granite samples with different amounts of discrete fractures are also conducted. It is concluded that the developed FDEM has the capability of simulating the discrete fracture network with specific DFN features, which paves the way for the 3-D FDEM to simulate the engineering problem with complex geo-structures. Copyright © 2025 ARMA, American Rock Mechanics Association.
[6] 贾永杰,邓鹏海 .TBM掘进圆形隧洞底鼓机理FDEM数值模拟研究[J].武汉大学学报（工学版）,2023,56 (10):1186-1200
摘要：采用耦合的有限元-离散元法(finite-discrete element method, FDEM)研究了圆形隧洞底板大变形灾变机制,并研究了地应力量值、侧压系数、底板位置和隧洞形状对底鼓灾害的影响。结果表明:1)在静水压力状态下,圆形隧洞底板大变形灾变力学机制为隧洞开挖造成围岩径向应力降低和切向应力升高,当超过岩体强度后产生共轭剪切破裂,并伴随拉伸断裂;浅部破裂岩块在深部围岩弹性变形恢复和剪胀效应下发生向隧洞内的翻转大运动,进而引发底板大变形灾害;2)随着地应力量值、侧压系数和底板位置的变化,围岩破坏率、损伤破裂区半径和隧洞表面围岩最大位移量等也发生变化,但仍为破裂碎胀性的大变形;3)传统的滑移线场理论难以解释直墙拱形底板围岩的共轭剪切破裂和深部岩体破裂,采用FDEM和双轴压缩力学模型可成功解释上述现象,为隧洞底鼓大变形灾变机制提供新的研究思路。
[7] 张柏楠 .嵌岩海上风机海床岩石破碎FDEM数值仿真方法与单桩基础水平承载破坏机理研究[D],2024
摘要：海上风能资源丰富、风速稳定、适合大规模开发,发展海上风电是解决能源短缺、环境可持续发展以及实现“双碳”战略目标的重要途径。截止到2023年,我国海上风电累计装机37.29GW,为全球第一,因此海上风机的安全运行对能源、经济、社会稳定极为重要。 福建、广东、广西、山东半岛南及台湾海峡等海域是我国海风资源最丰富的地区,但是受海底岛礁影响,这些海域海床地质条件复杂,海底岩层埋藏深度浅,覆盖层土体性质差,风机需采用风化岩石作为桩基础持力层承担上部风浪流载荷作用(即采用嵌岩基础)。但是大容量风电机组载荷大(典型5MW海上风机基础顶部极端弯矩超过140MN·m),极端海况下风机基础产生极大变形,易使桩周岩石破裂失效,从而导致基础承载性能发生弱化,极大增加了嵌岩风机基础设计与安全分析难度。 然而,目前针对嵌岩海上风机基础的安全分析研究较少,尤其是强风化、中风化等岩基海床,尚未有设计方法能够分析海床风化岩石破裂过程中大型风机基础水平承载破坏机理,导致嵌岩海上风机基础变形行为不明确、安全分析有偏差、整体成本不优化、运行安全有风险。主要问题在于目前设计分析方法以有限元数值模拟为主要手段,而传统有限元基于连续介质力学理论,难以模拟岩石从完整到破裂过程,因此无法准确揭示嵌岩风机基础水平承载破坏机理。 耦合有限-离散元方法(the combined Finite and Discrete Element Method,FDEM)结合了有限元和离散元两方面的优势,可以模拟材料由连续到非连续变形破坏过程,是目前可以用来分析海床岩石破碎机理和嵌岩基础水平承载特性的最佳数值方法。但是要将FDEM应用于大型嵌岩风机基础破坏失效模拟,需要解决三方面科学难题,一是三维FDEM在工程尺度计算方面存在计算量大、模拟效率低的缺陷;二是缺少能够模拟海床风化岩延性破裂的FDEM力学模型与高效的参数标定方法;三是目前尚无采用FDEM模拟嵌岩风机桩-岩相互的相关研究,缺少FDEM分析模型,无法揭示风化岩石破碎与嵌岩风机水平承载破坏机理。 因此,本文针对嵌岩海上风机海床岩石破碎FDEM数值仿真方法与单桩基础水平承载破坏机理开展研究,主要研究内容与创新性如下: (1)针对现有3D FDEM在开展海上风机工程尺度模拟计算效率低的问题,自主开发了适合GPU并行的3D FDEM接触检测算法和库伦摩擦力算法,提出了一种改进的GPU并行加速FDEM实施算法,自主研发了 GPU 2D/3D FDEM数值模拟平台INFIDEP(Interdisciplinary Finite Discrete Element Program,开发代码 6 万行),相对于单核 CPU FDEM加速约500倍,解决了海床风化岩体从连续到破裂全过程高效模拟难题。 (2)针对FDEM在模拟风化岩土等弹塑性材料变形方面的不足,首次建立了 GPU并行加速的2D/3D FDEM“弹塑性-损伤-断裂”联合力学模型算法,自主开发了适用于GPU INFIDEP 的 Drucker-Prager 与 Johnson-Cook 塑性屈服模型算法,解决了 FDEM 在延性材料断裂模拟方面的难题,为复杂海床风化岩体破裂失效过程分析提供了 FDEM计算模型。 (3)针对风化岩参数标定与破碎机理研究方面的不足,探索了机器学习理论辅助FDEM参数标定方法,提出了适用于风化岩参数标定的多类型融合机器学习模型和参数反演标定方法,根据现场勘测与室内试验建立了风化岩连续-破裂过程GPU FDEM模拟方法,揭示了风化岩从完整到破碎的变形特性与细观破碎机理。 (4)针对海上风机嵌岩单桩基础水平承载破坏机理方面的不足,提出了嵌岩风机桩-岩界面接触力学模型与FDEM模拟方法,建立了风机-海床耦合3D FDEM模型,通过开展海上风机嵌岩单桩基础水平受荷模型试验,验证了该数值模型的可靠性,通过与FEM模型对比突出了 FDEM模型的优越性,在此基础上开展了嵌岩单桩基础水平承载特性FDEM模拟分析(刚柔性、桩-岩相互作用、桩周岩体的破裂失效机制等),揭示了复杂岩基海域风机嵌岩单桩基础水平承载破坏机理,解决了海床岩石破碎对嵌岩风机基础承载性能弱化的理论与数值模拟难题,为嵌岩海上风机基础优化设计与安全分析提供了重要的理论基础和技术支持。
[8] He Liu,Junjie Wang,Panpan Cheng ,等.Stability analysis and fracture evolution in topographical bias tunnels within layered rock masses: insights from FDEM simulation[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2026,197 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study utilized the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) to investigate the stability and fracture evolution mechanisms of surrounding rock in bias tunnels within layered rock masses. Firstly, an improved constitutive model for cohesive element incorporating irreversible damage is proposed and the numerical model is rigorously validated against a physical model test, with results exhibiting remarkable consistency in both fracture patterns and surface displacements. Subsequently, a systematical parametric study was performed, and the effects of bedding dip angle, bedding spacing, and key rock mechanical parameters (cohesion, elastic modulus, internal friction angle, and Poisson’s ratio) on the post-excavation stress redistribution, displacement field, and fracture evolution in the surrounding rock at engineering scale were analyzed. The results demonstrate that stress concentrations under bias loading conditions primarily located at the arch foot on the deep buried side, the arch crown, and the shoulder region of the shallow side. An increase in bedding spacing effectively inhibits fracture propagation. The bias effect is particularly pronounced at a 45° bedding dip angle relative to 0° and 90°, significantly intensifying the stress concentration, displacement development, and fracture propagation. Reduction in cohesion leads to enhanced fracture development, whereas an increase in elastic modulus significantly reduces displacement magnitudes. A decrease in the internal friction angle increases the risk of shear failure, while an increase in Poisson’s ratio effectively suppresses overall displacement, albeit with limited mitigation of stress concentration. The study elucidates the failure mechanisms of surrounding rock under coupled multi-parameter interactions, providing a theoretical basis and numerical support for the design of support systems in bias tunnels.
[9] Zitao Chen,Shuzhan Xu,Guang Yang ,等.A novel GPGPU-parallelized contact detection algorithm for 3D-FDEM: Optimizing the computational structure[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,330 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Currently, the three-dimensional combined finite-discrete element method (3D-FDEM) based on GPGPU (general-purpose graphics processing unit) parallelized computation is widely employed to model failure propagation and contact interactions among different blocks. However, existing contact monitoring algorithms frequently result in computational collapse and excessive computational time consumption due to the fixed memory and serial computing structure inherent in GPU architectures. In this study, a novel parallel contact detection algorithm for 3D-FDEM is proposed. By dynamically decomposing the computational space, abnormal spatial cells are identified and adaptively re-partitioned, effectively preventing computational collapse. Furthermore, by balancing computational workloads among threads, the algorithm significantly reduces computational time. The detection procedure is transformed from a serial to a fully parallel detection mode, markedly enhancing computational efficiency. Compared with existing contact detection algorithms, the proposed method reduces the contact detection time to approximately 5% of the original while ensuring stable performance. Simulations of block sliding and uniaxial compression validate the improvement in computational accuracy, and multi-block collision simulations show excellent agreement with experimental results. The proposed algorithm substantially enriches the computational framework of 3D-FDEM and provides a robust algorithmic foundation for high-dimensional block collision simulations within current computing capabilities.
[10] Long Li,Quan Jiang,Qiang Liu ,等.Study on the fracture characteristics of surrounding rock of underground cavern based on CZM-FDEM technique[J].Engineering Failure Analysis,2026,184 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The failure of fissured surrounding rock in underground caverns has a significant influence on engineering stability. To investigate the fracture characteristics of fissured surrounding rock of underground cavern, a coupled cohesive zone model and finite discrete element method (CZM-FDEM) was established considering the confining pressure. Moreover, the intact and fissured granite specimens model is established to study the fracture behavior of granite via biaxial compression tests. Then, numerical models with different crack inclination angles <em>α</em> and crack lengths <em>L</em> are established to simulate the propagation process of cracks and macroscopic damage features of the model. Finally, the scalar stiffness degradation variable (SDEG), strain energy and damage dissipated energy are introduced to describe the damage degree of the fissured surrounding rock, which in turn characterises the microscopic damage features of the model. Results indicate that the CZM-FDEM model can effectively capture the fracture behavior of fissured surrounding rock. Under biaxial compression, cracks generate and propagate. The compressive stress concentration regions are clearly observed at the left and right sides of the cavern, and exhibit X-shaped conjugate fracture characteristics around the circular cavern model. The crack inclination angle significantly influences the failure characteristics of fissured surrounding rock. When <em>α</em> = 0° and 90°, with the increase of crack length, the main damage mode of the specimen is tensile damage and shear failure, and the emergence and propagation of secondary cracks. The specimen is first compacted and the crack surface is closed under the combined action of vertical load and confining pressure, and the peak strain energy is increased by about 13 %∼22 %. When <em>α</em> = 30° and 60°, the primary form of crack initiation is tensile cracking along the axial direction, the maximum strain energy is about 80 % of the the intact roc
[11] Xudong Chen,Renjie Wang,Weibing Ou ,等.Simulating the behaviour of masonry cross vaults on spreading supports with a GPGPU-parallelised FDEM[J].Computational Particle Mechanics,2025,12 (5):4003-4017,Elsevier Science
摘要：The structural performance of masonry cross vaults on spreading supports is highly nonlinear and discontinuous. Moreover, they are more sensitive to horizontal than vertical support displacement. A GPGPU-parallelised combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) was employed to evaluate the support displacement that masonry cross vaults could sustain. Dry-joint assumption was held, and each masonry block was discretised into four-node constant strain tetrahedral elements (TET4) connected by six-node cohesive elements (CE6). Fracturing of masonry blocks was not considered, since the failure of cross vaults subjected to horizontal support displacement is largely due to geometrical instability. Numerical examples were presented and validated with experiments, showing that the FDEM was reliable and robust in simulating the behaviour of masonry cross vaults on horizontally moving supports. Support displacement at the time of the first block fall and collapse was recorded. Further parametric discussions on the influence of block weaving pattern, embrace angle of intersecting barrel vaults and rib thickness were performed, and their relevance to the resistance of masonry cross vaults against support displacement was revealed.
[12] Weiqin Wang,Xicai Gao,Ziwei Ding ,等.Fracture characteristic and support effect around deep lined tunnels using CGP-FDEM simulation and field investigation analysis[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2024,161 :29-47,Elsevier Science
摘要：The lining is one of the main methods of support and is chosen as the primary support for composite and reinforced roadways during mining excavation. Systematic investigations into the supportive effect of lined roadways in deep weak rock masses are highly desirable to improve support design and enhance roadway stability. The fracture characteristics and deformation are more prominent in the lining failure and damage to the surrounding rock. For investigations into the fracture mode and failure characteristics of the lining support, this study proposed a lining element support model in the graphics processing units (GPU) parallel combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) program using compute unified device architecture (CUDA), referred to as CGP-FDEM. The lining element model and excavation simulation method are implemented in the CGP-FDEM aim of simulation large-scale rock fractures in underground excavations. On this basis, the simulation of deep roadway excavation is performed under various support conditions, including low-strength and high-strength shotcrete, steel arch, and U-profile yieldable steel. Further, a comparative analysis is conducted between the field investigation and simulation results, focusing on fracture-fragmentation and large deformation of the surrounding rock, as well as the failure and fracture mode of the lining elements. Results of individual support effects indicate that the reinforcement conditions mainly affect the excavation damaged zone (EDZ) and the deformation of the surrounding rock. Rock fragmentation and buckling intensify the large deformation and instability of the roadway. Fracture evolution and instability of the surrounding rock can easily occur in weak areas due to severe stress concentration and the accumulation and release of energy. Based on the analysis, the principle of "uniform reinforcement of reactive force throughout the entire section" is proposed to alleviate stress concentrations and maintain the overall
[13] Yun Zhou,Xianjun Tan,Hongyuan Liu ,等.A quantitative evaluation method for tunnel excavation disturbance based on a combined finite-discrete element method[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,327 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The rapid advancement of tunnel engineering in China necessitates a thorough assessment of excavation disturbance to ensure construction safety and optimize tunnel designs. This study employs the intrinsic cohesive method to determine rock fragmentation by calculating the ratio of damaged cohesive elements to undamaged elements. Using this approach, a quantitative method is proposed to evaluate tunnel excavation disturbance with the FDEM. First, a mesh sensitivity analysis is conducted to demonstrate the stability of the proposed method as mesh size is reduced. Then, the study explores factors influencing the excavation disturbance coefficient, including rock and joint mechanical properties, joint density, joint inclination angle, tunnel dimensions, and excavation methods. Results indicate that rock and joint mechanical properties are the primary factors, with joint inclination having minimal impact on the extent of the EDZ, and the differences in the EDC caused by different joint orientations in this study do not exceed 0.098. When the vertical in-situ stress is less than 34.65 MPa and the rock strength is 30 MPa, the EDC does not exceed 0.2; conversely, the EDC does not exceed 0.05 when the rock strength is 60 MPa. The difference in EDC across all numerical cases between excavation methods does not exceed 0.1, which is larger than that caused by tunnel size variations (0.05). The method is validated by comparing numerical results with on-site tunnel seismic prediction test results from tunnels in the southwestern mountainous region of China. In conclusion, this study introduces a novel approach for assessing tunnel excavation disturbance, providing valuable support for optimizing tunnel designs and conducting stability analyses.
[14] 杨佳龙,毛碧琦,张宏 ,等.基于FDEM的核桃冲击破壳特性研究[J].塔里木大学学报,2025,37 (2):55-66
摘要：为了从微观层面阐明核桃的冲击破壳机理,本研究通过有限元耦合离散元法与内聚力模型相结合的方式,对简化成球壳的核桃在冲击作用下的破碎过程进行数值模拟。引入损伤比和最大碎片尺寸比定量描述了冲击速度和冲击角度对破碎程度的影响,结果表明随着冲击速度的增加,球壳的破碎模式根据其破碎程度可分为未破碎、局部破碎、破碎以及完全解体四种。此外,冲击角度的变化对损伤比的影响不显著,最大碎片尺寸比在一定冲击速度范围内却受到冲击角度的显著影响,表现为随着冲击角度和冲击速度逐渐增加,最大碎片尺寸比由显著减小逐渐变为缓慢减小。模拟结果为壳类坚果破壳取仁问题研究提供参考,同时为冲击破壳取仁装备及其关键部件的优化创新提供指导。
[15] Zhang, Bao,Wei, Junhui,Bai, Xiaofei ,等.Fracture-Controlled Mechanisms of Sand Production in Deep Tight Sandstone: Insights from Coupled FDEM Modeling[J].Processes,2026,14 (5),MDPI
摘要：Wellbore instability and sand production pose critical challenges in deep tight sandstone reservoirs, severely impairing wellbore integrity and reducing hydrocarbon recovery. This study introduces, for the first time, the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) to numerically simulate sand production under high in situ stress. The FDEM By seamlessly integrates continuum and discontinuum representations within a unified framework, enabling the simulation of the complete failure sequence-from matrix damage and fracture growth to granular flow. High-resolution numerical simulations are conducted to compare intact and naturally fractured formations, with a focus on the governing role of pre-existing geological discontinuities. Results show that in intact sandstone, stress concentration drives helical crack growth leading to a symmetrical V-shaped breakout, with a critical borehole pressure (CBHP) of 60.05 MPa required to prevent instability. In fractured rock, however, pre-existing fractures act as dominant weakness planes that distort the stress field and induce earlier, asymmetric failure, raising the CBHP to 64.05 MPa. A strong negative linear correlation is observed between reservoir pressure depletion and CBHP: a pore-pressure reduction of 23.75 MPa decreases the CBHP by 4.8-5.0 MPa. Notably, natural fractures amplify the destabilizing effect of depletion, raising the required CBHP by 4.0 MPa at initial reservoir pressure (95 MPa) and by 5.0 MPa under full depletion. Consequently, although fractured formations require a higher CBHP (64.05 MPa vs. 60.05 MPa), their safe operating window is effectively narrower. These findings advance the mechanistic understanding of fracture-controlled sand production and provide a validated numerical framework for determining safe production pressures in deep, fractured sandstone reservoirs.
[16] Penghai Deng,Quansheng Liu,Haifeng Lu ,等.Mechanical properties and failure behavior of heterogeneous granite: Insights from a new Weibull-based FDEM numerical model[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2024,168 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Granite is often encountered in underground engineering, and its mechanical properties and failure behavior directly determine its stability and seepage characteristics. Unlike other rocks, granite is usually considered heterogeneous. Based on the Weibull distribution, this paper proposes a novel modeling method for heterogeneous granite via the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM), and the mechanical properties and failure behavior of granite under uniaxial and triaxial compression, Brazilian splitting, and direct tension, as well as the influence of the loading rate, were investigated. The research results indicate that (1) the new modeling method can be used to construct a heterogeneous granite numerical model that includes three types of randomness (mineral spatial distribution randomness, mineral size randomness, and mineral shape randomness) and can quantitatively change the mineral composition;(2) uniaxial and triaxial compression simulation tests reveal that as the content of weak minerals (biotite) increases, the uniaxial compressive strength and equivalent cohesion decrease as a power function, and Young's modulus decreases as a linear function, while the equivalent internal friction angle decreases as an exponential function;(3) heterogeneous granite exhibits different mechanical properties and failure behaviors under Brazilian splitting and direct tension due to their different failure modes;typically, the tensile strength obtained from direct tension testing is lower than the value obtained from Brazilian splitting testing;and (4) as the loading rate increases, the strength, stiffness, and number of cracks of the specimen first stabilize and then increase as a power function, with a critical rate of v=1 m/s. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[17] 顾思琪,张嘉南,周锐 ,等.砌体砖墙在基底倾斜时破坏的有限离散元分析[J].常州工学院学报,2023,36 (1):1-6
摘要：砌体结构应用广泛,在基底倾斜时的抗倒塌能力是衡量其一阶抗震性能的一个指标。由于砌体砖墙在基底倾斜时的破坏离散性强,故采用复合有限离散元方法(简称FDEM)对其进行研究。通过与试验结果进行对比,验证了FDEM分析砌体砖墙在基底倾斜时破坏的有效性。文章还研究了孔洞的大小、布局以及摩擦系数和倾斜方向对砌体砖墙抗倾斜性能的影响,为实际工程应用提供了借鉴。
[18] Lei Sun,Giovanni Grasselli,Quansheng Liu ,等.Investigating the frost cracking mechanism and the related shallow alpine rockfall initiation process using three-dimensional FDEM[J].Engineering Geology,2025,348 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Frost weathering plays a critical role in rockwall instability in alpine environments. This paper offers a new insight into the shallow alpine rockfall mechanism from the frost cracking perspective. A numerical framework based on the three-dimensional (3D) combined finite discrete element method (FDEM) is developed to simulate the cryogenic thermal-mechanical coupled processes in cold regions (e.g., water-ice phase change, ice-rock interaction, and frost cracking). Specifically, a new volume expansion model is introduced, allowing for explicit ice-rock interaction in pre-existing cracks while implicit frost heaving pressure in pores or newly generated cracks, to improve numerical efficiency and stability. This framework is validated against benchmark tests and further applied to explore the shallow alpine rockfall mechanism under repeated freeze-thaw cycles. Results suggest that the proposed method effectively simulates temperature field evolution and frost cracking process in cold regions. Frost crack initiation, propagation, and connection with pre-existing cracks, driven by ice-rock interaction in cold seasons, deteriorate structure stability and prepare/trigger shallow rockfall. This study enriches the shallow rockfall mechanism from fracture mechanics standpoint, which is essential for assessing, predicting, and mitigating rockfall activity, particularly in the context of global climate change.
[19] 邓鹏海,刘泉声 .基于FDEM数值模拟的软岩大变形预测及新分级研究[J].中国公路学报,2024,37 (11):164-180
摘要：软岩隧洞大变形预测及分级是隧洞工程领域重要但难以解决的问题。总结了软岩隧洞大变形预测及分级存在的不足,鉴于有限元-离散元耦合数值模拟方法(FDEM)在模拟软岩隧洞破裂碎胀大变形方面的优越性,采用FDEM进行不同强度应力比下软岩变形及破裂过程模拟研究,揭示高应力软岩大变形机理及不同地应力下的围岩变形或破裂模式,并提出基于强度应力比的隧洞变形预测公式及大变形新分级。研究结果表明:(1)可采用临界迟滞阻尼实现软岩隧洞渐进大变形模拟,获得围岩最大变形量,避免动态响应;(2)随着强度应力比的降低,围岩可分为弹塑性变形、闭合破裂、滑移剪胀和碎胀4类破裂模式,据此提出了新的围岩变形等级划分,并提出了相应的支护措施建议;(3)根据不同强度应力比得到的围岩变形量,提出了隧洞变形量值预测公式;相比于已有预测模型,提高了预测精度和适用范围,尤其适用于低强度应力比围岩大变形预测,弥补了已有模型在低强度应力比时预测误差极大的不足,且能够预测无支护隧洞围岩总变形量,对于支护方案设计、支护参数选择和隧道掘进机(TBM)卡机状态预判具有指导意义。
[20] Penghai Deng,Quansheng Liu,Haifeng Lu ,等.A FDEM study on the mechanical properties and failure behavior of soft-hard interbedded rocks considering the size effect[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2024,310 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Soft–hard interbedded rocks are widely distributed at the Earth's surface, and their mechanical properties and failure behavior directly affect the stability of local tunnel and slope engineering projects. Previous studies have rarely considered the influence of size effects on the mechanical properties and failure behavior of such rocks. Therefore, this paper used the combined finite–discrete element numerical method (FDEM) to study the mechanical properties and failure behavior of soft–hard interbedded rock samples considering the size effect. First, appropriate input parameters were calibrated and verified by using a new parameter calibration method. Second, the effects of the element size and loading rate were studied to obtain appropriate model parameters. Finally, the effects of the layer number, sample size, and height–diameter ratio of composite rock samples on their mechanical properties and failure behavior at different layer dip angles and layer thickness ratios were investigated. The results support the following findings: (1) For the composite rock samples with a layer thickness of 10 mm, reliable simulation results can be obtained by using a 2.2 mm element size, and the loading rate should not exceed 0.2 m/s in FDEM numerical modeling. (2) The number of layers in the sample should be at least 5, and when the height–diameter ratio is a constant 2.0, the height of the sample should not be less than 110 mm. (3) As the height–diameter ratio of the composite rock samples increases, both the compressive strength and elastic modulus decrease for all layer dip angles considered, but the rock failure mode changes for layer dip angles of 15–75°;in addition, the sample size effect is most significant for layer dip angles of 60° and 75°. (4) Taking horizontally layered composite rock samples as examples, both the compressive strength and elastic modulus of samples with different layer thickness ratios decrease with increasing height–diameter ratio and their failur
[21] Ruifeng Zhao,Zhijun Wu,Xiangyu Xu ,等.Data-driven hierarchical multiscale FDEM for simulating rock meso-macro mechanical behavior[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2024,427 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study presents a data-driven based hierarchical multiscale combined finite-discrete element method (DHM-FDEM) for accurately reproducing rock macro-scale mechanical behavior while ensuring acceptable computational costs. To construct the DHM-FDEM scheme, firstly, upscale finite elements assembly (UFEA) and upscale crack elements assembly (UCEA) are constructed, incorporating meso-scale finite elements and crack elements with mechanical parameters directly derived from meso mechanics test results. Then, a conversion method is proposed to transform the mechanical response of UFEA and UCEA into a strain-stress pair of the macro-scale element, avoiding directly solving the mechanical state of macro-scale elements with mismatched mechanical parameters, thus ensuring the accurate reproduction of rock mechanical properties. Furthermore, UFEA and UCEA subjected to various loading paths are conducted by meso-scale FDEM to generate data sets comprising sequential strain-stress pairs with history dependence and one-to-many mapping relationships. The generated data sets are then applied to train a data-driven method, long short-term memory with mixture density network (LSTM-MDN), which directly maps strain input to stress output, thus replacing tedious and repetitive meso-scale FDEM computation on UFEA and UCEA to significantly save computational costs. Subsequently, UFEA and UCEA driven by LSTM-MDN are equivalent to macro-scale FDEM elements, replacing their phenomenological constitutive relationships and thereby achieving the multiscale numerical computation scheme. After that, the uniaxial compression test and Brazilian disk test are conducted to validate the computational accuracy and efficiency of DHM-FDEM. Finally, the capability of DHM-FDEM to accurately reproduce rock accumulated damage from loading-unloading cycles is verified through uniaxial and biaxial cyclic loading-unloading tests. © 2024 Elsevier B.V.
[22] 夏亚琦,陈旭东 .海冰撞击柱状结构的有限离散元模拟[J].土木工程与绿色建筑,2023
摘要：在冬季结冰海域,海冰对海上结构物的作用能够引起结构的震动,甚至能造成结构的破坏。海冰撞击结构对结构施加的冰荷载是海上平台结构设计和寿命评估的重要影响因素。文章主要采用有限离散元法(FDEM)对海冰撞击结构进行研究。使用有限离散元法,将海冰离散为离散单元,其中包含有限元公式,对海冰与结构的相互作用进行评估。通过验证不同参数包括海冰的速度和结构的直径以及撞击的角度,揭示海冰对结构的作用机理,并为海上建筑设计提供借鉴。
[23] Chenyu Xu,Quansheng Liu,Xuhai Tang ,等.Dynamic stability analysis of jointed rock slopes using the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM)[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2023,160 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is an advanced finite element and discrete element coupling method, which is commendably suitable for simulating the slope's entire evolution process from cracking, expansion, penetration, sliding, collision to deposition under seismic load. The original FDEM has apparent shortcomings in simulating the dynamic instability process of earthquake-induced landslides, and some targeted improvements are made to the original program. Numerical tests are carried out to prove the accuracy and robustness of the improved FDEM, and the influence of the structural plane on the dynamic evolution mechanism and process of the slope is studied. The results show that the improved FDEM can accurately reproduce the entire dynamic evolution processes and failure forms of different jointed rock slopes under seismic load and can quantitatively evaluate the dynamic stability of jointed rock slopes (dynamic safety factor and critical failure surface). In addition, the results also emphasize that the slope failure degree significantly affects the dynamic response of the slope and suggest that the combination of the cut-through of the failure surface and the increase of kinetic energy should be used as the criteria for slope dynamic instability simulation by FDEM. This study provides scientific and technological support for revealing the failure mechanism of jointed rock slopes and disaster reduction and prevention. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[24] Wenjun Cui,Quansheng Liu,Zhijun Wu ,等.Fracture development around wellbore excavation: Insights from a 2D thermo-mechanical FDEM analysis[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2024,295 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Insights into fracture development and excavation damaged zone (EDZ) formation around wellbore excavation sites are essential for understanding wellbore stability. In this study, a novel thermo-mechanical scheme is implemented in the 2D combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) to investigate the fracturing process around a wellbore in a high-temperature subsurface environment. The developed scheme captures the isotropic/anisotropic thermal conduction characteristics within the rock formation. The coupled scheme and stress distributions around the wellbore subject to in-situ stress, drilling mud pressure, and temperature changes are validated by closed-form solutions. Fracture development and progressive EDZ formation by various mechanisms are analyzed. The results show that for an unsupported wellbore, fractures initiate in the region of the most severe stress concentration due to excavation unloading and constitute an EDZ that resembles the logarithmic-spiral rupture zone captured by experimental observations and Mohr-Coulomb models, resulting in potential water inrush due to the significantly increased fracture transmissivity of the EDZ and wellbore collapse. The shape and extent of the EDZ for wellbore excavation in the layered rock mass are dominated by the stress redistribution and the presence of low-strength bedding planes favorably oriented for bedding slippage. The excavation unloading-induced stresses can be effectively counteracted by properly applying drilling mud pressure, and the disturbance of the stress field occurs only within a small region, greatly reducing the extension of the EDZ. Thermal contraction of the surrounding rock due to its convective interaction with the cold drilling mud induces extra fractures around the wellbore. The extension of the EDZ is greater with increased thermal expansivity of the rock formation. Overall, the results indicate that the adopted thermo-mechanical FDEM simulation can provide unique geomechanical insight
[25] Mai, Longquan,Li, Hao .Finite-Discrete Element Method Simulation Study on Development of Water-Conducting Fractures in Fault-Bearing Roof under Repeated Mining of Extra-Thick Coal Seams[J].Sustainability,2024,16 (12),MDPI
摘要：The formation of water-conducting fractures in overlying strata caused by underground coal mining not only leads to roof water inrush disasters, but also water-conducting fractures penetrate the aquifer, resulting in the occurrence of a mine-water-inrush disaster and the loss of water resources. It destroys the sustainability of surface water and underground aquifers. This phenomenon is particularly significant in extra-thick coal seams and fault-bearing areas. Numerical simulation is an effective method to predict the failure range of mining overburden rock with low cost and high efficiency. The key to its accuracy lies in a reasonable constitutive model and simulation program. In this study, considering that the three parts of penetrating cracks, non-penetrating cracks, and intact rock blocks are often formed after rock failure, the contact state criterion and shear friction relationship of discrete rock blocks and the mixed fracture displacement-damage-load relationship are established, respectively. Combined with the Mohr-Coulomb criterion, the constitutive model of mining rock mass deformation-discrete block motion and interaction is formed. On this basis, according to the engineering geological conditions of Yushupo Coal Mine, a numerical model for the development of water-conducting cracks in the roof with faults under repeated mining of extra-thick coal seams is established. The results show the following: The constitutive relation of the continuous deformation-discrete block interaction of overlying strata and the corresponding finite element-discrete element FDEM numerical program and VUSDFLD multi-coal seam continuous mining subroutine can numerically realize the formation process of faults and water flowing fractures in overlying strata under continuous mining of extra-thick multi-coal seams. The toughness of sand mudstone is low, and the fracture will be further developed under the repeated disturbance of multi-thick coal seam mining. Finally, it is sta
[26] Ben Wang,Haibo Li .Contribution of detonation gas to fracturing reach in rock blasting: insights from the combined finite-discrete element method[J].Computational Particle Mechanics,2024,11 (2):657-673,Elsevier Science
摘要：The action of the detonation gas can be considerably affected by the conditions under which the blast occurs. In order to achieve a more comprehensive understanding of the contribution of detonation gas to fracturing reach, the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is performed to modelling rock blasting under three different circumstances: i. single-borehole blasting without free surface under different in situ stress, ii. single- and multi-borehole blasting with a nearby free surface, and iii. underground contour blasting. The results indicated that: (1) detonation gas contributes significantly to the fracturing reach in single-borehole blasting without free surface, but the pneumatic increase factor (<em>PIF</em>) decreases with the increase in isotropic in situ stress; (2) under anisotropic in situ stress, the contribution of detonation gas to the fracturing reach is significant in the direction of maximum principal pressure but negligible in the direction of minimum principal pressure; (3) the <em>PIF</em> of single-borehole blasting with a nearby free surface is even smaller than that of single-borehole blasting under the hydrostatic pressure of 40MPa, indicating that the nearby free surface weakens the contribution of detonation gas to fracturing reach; (4) due to multi-borehole interaction combined with free surface effect, detonation gas contributes little to the fracturing reach in muti-borehole blasting with a nearby free surface. (5) due to the combined effect of anisotropic in situ stress, free surface and muti-borehole interaction, the contribution of detonation gas to the excavation damage depth can be negligible in underground contour blasting.
[27] Peitao Li,Quansheng Liu .Investigation of tunnel excavation numerical analysis method for the combined finite-discrete element method[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2024,165 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Tunnel excavation was a typical three-dimensional space problem. As a two-dimensional numerical method, the combined finite-discrete element method did not demonstrate the spatial effect during the tunnel excavation simulation. A new excavation path for the combined finite-discrete element method was proposed based on the spatial evolution characteristics. Then, the tunnel excavation simulation was carried out under different excavation paths (linear softening curve, exponential softening curve, power softening curve, and new softening curve). The results showed that the advantages of the exponential softening curve and power softening curve were inherited by the new softening curve. The new softening curve demonstrated the spatial effect during the tunnel excavation simulation. Moreover, both the maximum softening rate and peak value of model kinetic energy occurred near the intermediate moment, which was an advantage over other softening curves. The discussion indicated that both the softening rate and elastic modulus range should be considered when determining new softening curve parameters. And the optimal total softening steps can be estimated by the proposed equation with an error tolerance. Finally, the new softening curve was well applied in the numerical analysis of tunnel excavation and support design. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[28] Ping Liu,Hongtao Wang,Quansheng Liu ,等.FDEM numerical study on the large deformation mechanism of layered rock mass tunnel under excavation-unloading disturbance[J].Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology,2025,159 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：During tunnel excavation, the unloading effect leads to a weakening of the mechanical properties of the rock mass, with mechanical parameters exhibiting dynamic variations throughout the unloading process. Therefore, the dynamic evolution of mechanical parameters is a crucial aspect that must be considered in numerical simulations. Through unloading mechanical tests on the slate, this study establishes a quantitative linear relationship model between unloading and changes in deformation modulus and cohesion and further extends this model to tensile strength parameters. Using a horizontally stratified slate tunnel excavation as an example, numerical simulations were conducted to examine the large deformation, fracturing, and swelling process of layered rock masses under the deterioration of cohesion, tensile strength, and deformation modulus. The results show that the weakening of the deformation modulus due to unloading has a minimal impact on rock mass response, while the degradation of cohesion and tensile strength is the critical factor causing large deformations in tunnels. Additionally, as the deterioration of cohesion and tensile strength intensifies, the extent of fracturing and the range of the highly damaged zone in the rock mass significantly increase. The Muzhailing Tunnel project case study verifies the reliability of the proposed FDEM method, which incorporates the effects of unloading-induced weakening, and demonstrates the necessity of accounting for the degradation of mechanical parameters in FDEM simulations.
[29] Xirui Yang,Peiyu Chen,Xingyu Wang ,等.Development of a FDEM model for cotton stalks based on biomechanical and structural properties[J].Biosystems Engineering,2025,260 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In the mechanised recovery process of drip irrigation tapes, the crossing of side branches and lodged cotton stalks (CS) are significant factors contributing to the increased breakage rate. Effectively cutting the cotton stalks is key to solving this issue. Constructing a multi-scale numerical model of cotton stalks is a breakthrough method for studying their fracture process. This study analyses the mechanical properties and structural composition of different sections of cotton stalk. Based on this, adopts a finite-discrete element method (FDEM) combined with zero-thickness cohesive elements to construct a numerical model of the cotton stalk, and the model's accuracy was validated through random sampling. The results indicate that the proportion of lignified tissues in the CS gradually decreases from the base to the top, and the load-bearing capacity of the CS shifts from strong compressive and shear resistance to greater ductility and tensile strength, while the compressive force values exhibit a decreasing trend with the presence of jump points, the average values of which are located at 14.5 % (base), 56.2 % (middle), and 29.3 % (top) of the CS length. The constructed composite model of the cotton stalk accurately replicates its mechanical properties, force transfer, and damage evolution processes. The Spearman correlation coefficients for the random sampling simulation and experimental validation of CS at different sections reached 0.9998 (base) and 0.9207 (top), respectively. This study offers a groundbreaking method for investigating CS damage mechanisms and can also offer technical guidance for the recovery of drip irrigation tapes under this irrigation management model.
[30] Wanrun Li,Zhengzhao Liang,Chengye Zhao .Hydraulic fracturing of reservoirs containing rough discrete fracture networks:FDEM-UPM approach[J].Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering,2026,18 (2):1368-1389,Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：Fractures are typically characterized by roughness that significantlyaffects the mechanical and hydraulic characteristics of ***,hydraulic fracturing mechanisms under the influenceof fracture morphology remain largely *** the advantages of the finite-discrete element method(FDEM)for explicitly simulating fracture propagation and the strengths of the unifiedpipe model(UPM)for efficientlymodeling dual-permeability seepage,we propose a new hydromechanical(HM)coupling approach for modeling hydraulic *** against benchmark examples,the proposed FDEM-UPM model is further augmented by incorporating a Fourier-based methodology for reconstructing non-planar fractures,enabling quantitative analysis of hydraulic fracturing behavior within rough discrete fracture networks(DFNs).The FDEM-UPM model demonstrates computational advantages in accurately capturing transient hydraulic seepage phenomena,while the asynchronous time-stepping schemes between hydraulic and mechanical analyses substantially enhanced computational efficiencywithout compromising computational *** results show that fracture morphology can affect both macroscopic fracture networks and microscopic interaction types between hydraulic fractures(HFs)and natural fractures(NFs).In an isotropic stress field,the initiation azimuth,propagation direction and microcracking mechanism are significantly influencedby fracture *** an anisotropic stress field,HFs invariably propagate parallel to the direction of the maximum principal stress,reducing the overall complexity of the stimulated fracture ***,stress concentration and perturbation attributed to fracture morphology tend to be compromised as the leak-off increases,while the breakdown and propagation pressures remain insensitive to fracture *** findingsprovide new insights into the hydraulic fracturing mechanisms of fractured reservoirs containing complex rough DFNs.
[31] Bo-nan Zhang,Bo Han,Ben He ,等.FDEM analysis of deep rock mass failure and its impact on horizontal bearing capacity in offshore wind turbine piles[J].Ocean Engineering,2024,302 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Rock-socketed single piles are integral components of offshore wind turbine foundations in rock-based sea areas. Traditional numerical models have been employed to analyze the failure modes and lateral interactions between piles and the rock medium. However, these do not simulate the decline in the horizontal bearing capacity due to rock breakage, posing potential safety risks. In this study, the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) was used to simulate the deformation process of submarine rock masses transitioning from an intact to a fractured state. A notable innovation in the proposed approach is the consideration of the effects of the rock mass fracture and pile-rock cohesion on the load-bearing behavior of single-pile foundations. The FDEM model was validated through full-scale lateral load tests. The results showed a distinctive sequence in failure mechanisms, with the tensile failure of the rock mass around the pile at significant depths preceding the compression failure. Local failure at the contact interface significantly reduced the horizontal bearing capacity—a phenomenon that is inadequately represented by conventional finite element models. Furthermore, the cohesion element embedding method was introduced and used to simulate the influence of the tensile properties inherent in grouting materials on the failure strength and mode of the pile-rock interface. This study highlighted the importance of considering the nuanced effects of rock failure in the design of horizontally loaded piles. Failure to do so could lead to nonconservative designs and compromise the safety and efficacy of offshore wind turbine foundations. By pushing the boundaries of numerical modeling with the FDEM, the study aims to provide a more accurate and reliable framework for the design and assessment of rock-socketed single piles for offshore wind energy applications. © 2024
[32] Tian, Yongchao,Ren, Kaifang,He, Fan ,等.Study on the mechanical properties of stratified rock mass based on 3D printing technology and FDEM algorithm[J].Geomechanics and Geophysics for Geo-Energy and Geo-Resources,2025,11 (1):1-21,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：Stratified rock mass widely occurs during the process of engineering construction. The weak regions in engineering mainly include bedding plane and crack network, whose mechanical properties have a significant impact on the stability of geotechnical engineering. By adopting 3D printing technology and the coupled finite-discrete element method, this study revolves around the combined effect of bedding plane and precast crack on the mechanical properties of stratified rock mass. It has overcome a set of challenges, such as difficulty in sampling stratified rock mass, low success rate of precast cracks within stratified rock mass, and difficulty in controlling the geometric parameters of stratified rock specimens (e.g., the dip angle of bedding plane, the dip angle of precast crack, the length of precast crack, etc.). Firstly, compression tests are conducted on 3D printed specimens under the conditions of different drying times, glue saturations, and gypsum powder filling degrees to study the macroscopic mechanical response characteristics of 3D printed specimens. Based on this, an optimized printing scheme is formulated to ensure that the mechanical properties of the printed specimens bear a close resemblance to those of natural rock. Secondly, the strength characteristics and crack propagation patterns of stratified rock mass are examined by conducting compression tests on specimens with precast crack and numerical simulation tests as the dip angle of bedding plane varies. Additionally, a detailed comparison is made concerning the differences in the mechanical properties between stratified rock mass with precast crack and those without precast crack. Finally, when the dip angle of bedding plane, the dip angle of precast crack and the length of precast crack undergo changes, numerical simulations of the compression process of specimens with precast crack are carried out to explore the influence of each dominant factor on crack initiation stress, peak strength, and cra
[33] Sajid Ali,Chengzeng Yan,Tie Wang ,等.Evaluating the impact of calcite and heterogeneity on the mechanical behavior of coal: A numerical study with grain-based finite-discrete element method[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2024,297 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Understanding the mechanical properties and fracture behaviors of coal is essential for the safety of underground mining engineering. This research aims to evaluate the impact of calcite and heterogeneity on the mechanical properties of coal. Neper, a software package for polycrystal generation and meshing, is used to create numerical models with a non-uniform grain size distribution. A random parameter assignment method is proposed to simulate the mechanical properties and failure behavior of coal using the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). A comprehensive parametric investigation of the properties of triangular and joint elements is conducted, and calibration procedures are suggested for numerical modeling. The model was calibrated to experimental results and then used to understand the impact of calcite grains on the mechanical behavior of coal. After calibration, a triaxial compression was performed on coal samples with and without calcite grains at different confining pressures. It is found that the presence of calcite in a coal sample increases Young's modulus and decreases the peak strength of coal. This research uses Voronoi tessellation technology to present a Weibull statistical grain-based model (GBM) to investigate the microstructural heterogeneity induced by grain morphologies. The deformation response, strength characteristics and cracking behavior are investigated by varying the heterogeneity of numerical models under compressive tests with different confining pressures. The simulation results of triaxial compression indicate that the compressive strength increases linearly as the heterogeneity m value increases. The consistency of the numerical results with the experimental observations suggests that the GBM approach can be used to better understand the mechanics of brittle rock failure at the micro-structure scale. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[34] Xiaofu Li,Zhi Zhang,Chuanpeng Ji ,等.A Lagrange multiplier-based coupling approach for the combined finite-discrete element method applicable to mechanical investigation of composite materials[J].Computational Particle Mechanics,2024,11 (3):989-1005,Elsevier Science
摘要：The discrete element (DE) method is advantageous in modelling fracture behaviour because of its particle characteristics, but it is computationally costly. The finite element (FE) method is efficient in computation, but it might encounter some issues in modelling large deformation problems and fracture. The motivation of this work is to combine the both methods that uses DE particles in the region of particular interest and FE meshes in the remaining regions to save computation time. The key to this combined finite-discrete element method is the employment of an effective coupling approach. In this work, an approach based on Lagrange multiplier method is proposed to couple a FE domain with a DE domain at the interface. The different number of the degree of freedoms between each FE node and each DE particle is naturally taken into account by the governing equations and this incompatibility issue is addressed by incorporating rotational effect into the displacement compatibility condition. The displacement compatibility condition is enforced by the Lagrange multiplier method, and no material overlapping is allowed between different subdomains. A number of numerical examples are employed for validation and good agreement with the results from other numerical methods is observed. Numerical results confirm the effectiveness of the Lagrange multiplier-based coupling approach for both similar and dissimilar materials.
[35] 张亚芳,许敬彬,史科 ,等.冲击荷载下基于FDEM的超高性能水泥基复合材料数值模型研究[J].工程力学,2025
摘要：本文基于有限元-离散元耦合算法(Finite-Discrete Element Method， FDEM)，考虑材料细观非均匀性，采用内聚力单元表征各相材料间的界面属性，构建超高性能水泥基复合材料(Ultra-high Performance Cementitious Composite， UHPCC)的细观数值分析模型。同时，开展霍普金森压杆(Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar， SHPB)试验和侵彻试验，从宏-细观层面研究UHPCC在冲击荷载作用下的裂纹扩展过程以及断裂失效机制。结果表明，基于FDEM方法的数值模拟结果和物理试验结果具有良好的一致性。引入随机纤维分布的FDEM数值方法将材料中的关键区域离散化，较为准确地反映了UHPCC的非均质特征，实现了裂纹的萌生与扩展过程。内聚力单元作为连接各相材料的“桥梁”，有效表征了基体材料的潜在断裂面。基于FDEM构建的数值模型在不同冲击工况下有效预测了UHPCC的力学特征与损伤破裂过程。
[36] Wenjun Cui,Zhijun Wu,Xuehai Wu ,等.A physically consistent coupling framework of the lattice Boltzmann method and the hybrid finite-discrete element method via a corrected immersed moving boundary scheme for improved fluid–solid interaction modeling[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2026,195 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Fluid-solid interaction (FSI) problems involving irregularly-shaped, deformable, and breakable solids pose significant challenges for existing numerical methods regarding accurate hydrodynamic force evaluation, characterization of solid deformability and breakage, and robust handling of complex geometry and multi-body interaction. We develop the first coupling framework of the lattice Boltzmann method and hybrid finite-discrete element method (LBM-FDEM) to address these issues. FDEM inherently captures the irregular geometry and continuum-dicontinuum transition of solids, and robustly handles multi-body interaction behaviors. Effective integration between the two solvers is achieved by a reformulated FDEM-tailored IMB scheme using nodal-based quantities aligning with FDEM’s degrees of freedom. The implemented scheme removes the non-physical contribution of the fictitious internal-fluid inertia in the classical IMB, and restores the interface traction equivalence, yielding physically-consistent and FDEM-compatible hydrodynamic forces. Validation cases show that the proposed LBM-FDEM framework eliminates the velocity-evolution lag for circular particles and amplitude-phase errors in trajectory and rotation for elliptical particles as predicted by classical IMB, and effectively reproduces drafting-kissing-tumbling (DKT) interactions of dual particles. Validation of the beam bending response to the cross-flow demonstrates that the established model is effective in modeling FSI problems involving large deformation. Subsequently, two representative FSI problems are investigated. The simulation of the flow-induced rupture of the beam successfully captures the entire continuum-discontinuum transition processes, i.e., crack initiation, propagation through the beam thickness, complete beam rupture, and carry-away of the upper beam fragment by the fluid flow. Irregular particle cluster sedimentation cases further reveal complex wake interference effects, viscosity-dependent dy
[37] Mansour Sharafisafa,Zeinab Aliabadian,Akira Sato ,等.Effect of strain rate on the failure of bimrocks using the combined finite-discrete element method[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,176 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The block-in-matrix rocks (bimrocks) are a complex type of rock in which hard blocks are bonded in a weak matrix. Despite the widespread distribution of bimrocks in nature, they are usually ignored in the design and analysis stages, resulting in underestimation or overestimating critical design parameters. Moreover, in studies regarding the failure behaviour of the bimrocks, strain rate has been ignored and no study has focused on the influence of strain rate on the failure mechanism of bimrocks. Therefore, this study aims to numerically study the impact of the strain rate increase on the bimrock rectangular specimens with different volumetric bloc proportions (VBP). The combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is employed as the numerical tool to analyze the study objectives. FDEM has proved to be a suitable candidate, having extraordinary capabilities in modeling fracture development in brittle rock under complex loading types. Before the analysis of the bimrocks, a verification example is explained to demonstrate the capability of this method in modeling an existing problem. Six strain rates of 0.046/s, 0.092/s, 0.18/s, 0.74/s, 1.85/s, and 5.55/s are the considered strain rates chosen according to a detailed literature search. This study first discusses the influence of the strain rate on the response of the intact specimens composed of pure matrix or pure block properties. Then, four VBP of 25%, 50%, 75%, and 90% are numerically built and put under the chosen strain rates. The simulation results show that the strain rate considerably impacts the failure pattern, peak stress, and post-peak behavior of the bimrocks. Notably, it is observed that the low to medium strain rate (0.046/s, 0.092/s, 0.18/s s) have a similar influence on the failure of the bimrocks, while the loadings higher than these amounts cause complex failure (mainly multiple fracturing or axial splitting) and rapid increase in the peak stress. Furthermore, these observations are somehow simil
[38] He Liu,Panpan Zhu,Quansheng Liu ,等.Mesoscopic numerical modeling of Soil-Rock mixtures: Investigation of mechanical behavior and failure mechanisms based on FDEM[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2025,186 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, a new modeling method for Soil-Rock Mixtures (SRM) is proposed. The method integrates random polygon generation technology based on a polar coordinate system with a vertex perturbation smoothing algorithm. It enables efficient generation of geometric models that accurately represent the actual shapes of various rocks. Based on the modeling method, a series of triaxial compression numerical tests are conducted with FDEM (Combined finite-discrete element method) to investigate the influence of rock content, inclination angle and shape on the SRM mechanical behavior. The results show that with the increase of rock content, both the peak deviatoric stress and elastic modulus of SRM material increase. When the rock content is 30%-40%, the failure degree increases sharply, and the material with high rock content exhibits a greater softening rate and failure degree. The rock inclination angle has distinct directionality to the failure mode. The peak deviatoric stress, elastic modulus and failure degree of the sample decreases first and then increases with the increase of the angle. Samples demonstrate higher strength at 0° or 90°, while at 30° and 60°, the shear bands primarily extend along the long-axis inclination of the rocks, leading to reduced shear strength. Moreover, under the same conditions, smaller rock size, larger aspect ratio and higher angularity effectively enhance the material’s strength and stiffness. Models with long rocks are prone to form directional crack paths, and the existence of high angularity rocks increases the possibility of stress concentration and failure. In this paper, the key factors affecting the SRM mechanical properties are comprehensively analyzed, the reliability of the proposed SRM modeling method is verified, and the feasibility of FDEM in simulating SRM heterogeneous material is proved. This study provides new solutions for the numerical simulation of the SRM mechanical behavior, offering a theoretical basis and tech
[39] Xiaowei Yang,Jiansheng Xiang,John-Paul Latham ,等.Cracking and fragmentation in percussive drilling:Insight from FDEM simulation[J].Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering,2025,17 (10):6095-6110,Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：Percussive drilling is gaining interest for both shallow and deep applications due to its potential for higher drilling rates in hard ***,for efficient rock breaking,the development of advanced percussive drilling simulation tools has the potential to be *** tools must accurately capture the rock’s response to enable an effective analysis of the fragmentation *** continuum numerical methods,such as the finite element method(FEM),do not simulate discrete cracks or the contact interaction between rock *** finite-discrete element method(FDEM)is a three-dimensional hybrid method that combines FEM with the discrete element method(DEM)that addresses these *** FDEM simulation results of impacts on Kuru Grey granite show good agreement with published experimental *** interpretation focuses on two significant processes in percussive drilling:crack propagation and chipping *** successfully simulates the evolution of cracks,including radial,side,and inclined cracks,as well as crushed and cracked *** simulation also reproduces the coalescence of adjacent craters to generate more ***,the stress state,velocity field and discrete fractures simulated by FDEM provide detailed insights into the different fracture patterns for Kuru Grey granite,enhancing understanding of the fundamental underlying mechanisms.
[40] Weibing Cai,Ke Gao,Shugang Ai ,等.Implementation of extrinsic cohesive zone model (ECZM) in 2D finite-discrete element method (FDEM) using node binding scheme[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2023,159 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) has been widely used for rock fracturing simulations. Conventionally, FDEM is realized using the intrinsic cohesive zone model (ICZM);however, it has the drawback of artificial compliance and high computational expense. As a complement, the extrinsic cohesive zone model (ECZM) is seen to be realized in FDEM recently, whereas the node splitting scheme utilized is cumbersome. Here, within the framework of ICZM-based FDEM, we propose a node binding scheme to efficiently bind the pre-discretized finite elements and thus guarantee the continuum behavior of materials in the elastic stage. The yield surfaces, controlled by ECZM, are dynamically embedded by invoking the pre-inserted cohesive elements. The effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed approach are validated and tested by performing a suite of numerical experiments. Compared with ICZM-based FDEM, the proposed approach can correctly capture material deformation and reduce the computation cost. In contrast to the existing ECZM-based FDEM, the proposed approach can overcome the frequent and complex element topology updating. This work provides a novel perspective that fully inherits the advantages of both ICZM and ECZM, but circumvents their shortcomings, which guarantees a more efficient and effective simulation of brittle material evolution from continuum to discontinuum. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[41] Wei Kuang,Tengfei Guo,Xu Chang ,等.Fracture behavior of heterogeneous layered sandstone under mixed loading after thermal treatment: A thermal–mechanical grain-based FDEM model[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2025,188 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In deep rock engineering, temperature and bedding plane properties have a critical influence on the mechanical behavior of layered sandstone. Therefore, this study develops a cracked straight through Brazilian disc (CSTBD) numerical model for layered sandstone using the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM), incorporating material inhomogeneity and bedding plane characteristics. The fracture behavior of layered sandstone under splitting conditions after high-temperature treatment was examined, with model validation achieved through laboratory experiments. The results indicate that the microcrack density in layered sandstone increases and the crack distribution becomes more disordered as the temperature rises. During the heating phase, initial damage predominantly appears as tensile cracks, whereas in the cooling phase, the damage shifts to shear cracks, with the growth rates of microcracks generally slowing down. On the microscale, high thermal treatment temperatures cause thermal cracking of mineral grains, which damages the bedding planes. On the macroscale, thermal damage results in a reduction of peak load, with a notable transition from brittle to ductile fracture occurring between 600 °C and 800 °C. The crack propagation in layered sandstone is synergistically influenced by a combination of factors, including thermal treatment temperature, loading angle, bedding plane strength, and prefabricated crack length. The fracture toughness diminishes with rising temperatures or prefabricated crack length, and rises with increasing strength of the bedding plane. Furthermore, the effects of bedding plane strength ratio, bedding plane distribution pattern, and prefabricated crack length on the fracture toughness of layered sandstone were examined under diverse thermal treatment temperatures and loading modes. The results indicate that these factors exert significant control over the fracture mode and fracture resistance of layered sandstone.
[42] Bryan Euser,Angel Padilla,Zhou Lei ,等.Blind prediction of fracture in an additively manufactured geomaterial using the finite discrete element method[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2024,307 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Modeling fracture and damage processes is a challenging, yet critical capability for promoting safe and sustainable design in geotechnical, energy, and hydrological applications. Numerical methods capable of modeling fracture processes are rarely asked to make blind predictions against experimental observations. Here, we report results from a numerical study of blind fracture prediction in an additively manufactured, three-point bend specimen. We record a number of physical mechanisms associated with the fracture of the specimen and make a blind prediction against experimental results that were unknown when the numerical study was performed. We then compare results from our model to the blind data set. We find that the combined finite discrete element method performs exceptionally well in the simulation and prediction of fracture processes. © 2024
[43] Honghui Yuan,Chi Liu,Wei Zhu ,等.Study on the mechanical behavior and energy characteristics of rocks with closed cracks based on combined finite-discrete element method[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2025,179 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Many serious catastrophes are caused by complex cracks naturally distributed in rock masses. Understanding the mechanical behavior and energy evolution of rocks with closed cracks in different geometrical properties is crucial. This study presents a comprehensive investigation into the influence of crack inclination, length, and location on mechanical behavior, damage characteristics, and energy evolution in rocks. The findings demonstrate that the closed cracks significantly alter the stress–strain. The peak strength and elastic modulus exhibit an asymmetric U-shaped variation with increasing crack angle, decreasing quadratically with increasing crack length, and the crack location also affects the mechanical properties. Furthermore, the inclination angle and location of closed cracks considerably affect the damage characteristics. Cracks near the upper boundary of the specimen are less likely to propagate. Regarding energy evolution, this study presents a novel method using the residual energy index to assess the impact characteristics. The residual energy index initially decreases and then increases with increasing crack inclination. The residual energy index initially decreases and then stabilizes as the crack length increases, with the critical crack length identified as 15 mm. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for understanding dynamic hazards and determining the relevant hydraulic fracturing parameters.
[44] 李旺鹏,黄鹏,顾思琪 ,等.砌体拱抗震性能两种表征方式的有限离散元比较分析[J].土木工程与绿色建筑,2023
摘要：砌体拱结构是砌体结构中最为经典的结构形式之一。砌体拱在动力作用下具有高度的非线性和非连续性。文章对砌体拱在受水平加速度和地基倾斜两种作用下的抗震性能进行了研究,利用有限离散元法(FDEM)对砌体拱的破坏行为进行了数值模拟,在验证FDEM分析砌体拱抗震性能可靠性的同时,也分析了两种表征方式的差异性。
[45] Deng, Peng-Hai,Liu, Quan-Sheng,Huang, Xing .FDEM NUMERICAL STUDY ON THE FRACTURE AND SWELLING DEFORMATION OF HETEROGENEOUS ROCK MASS AROUND TUNNEL BASED ON WEIBULL DISTRIBUTION[J].工程力学,2024,41 (7):40-59,Tsinghua University
摘要：Rock materials are heterogeneous, and the strength of mineral particles and cementitious materials obey Weibull distribution statistically. Based on the combined finite-discrete element numerical method (FDEM), the parameter assignment process of elastic modulus and strength which obey to Weibull distribution is proposed. Then, the mechanical characteristics and failure behavior of heterogeneous rock samples under uniaxial compression, triaxial compression and Brazilian splitting are studied. Finally, the fracture and swelling deformation mechanism of heterogeneous rock mass around tunnel with high in-situ stress is investigated. The results show that: The FDEM numerical model, the number of triangular element with different elastic modulus obeys Weibull distribution, can be built by using the random parameter assignment method proposed in this paper;The uniaxial compressive strength, triaxial compressive strength, Brazilian splitting tensile strength, equivalent cohesion and equivalent internal friction angle of heterogeneous rock samples increase exponentially with the increase of heterogeneity m, and then approach to homogeneous materials;With the increase of m, the shape of fracture network changes little, mainly conjugate shear fracture, accompanied by a small number of tensile fractures, however, the failure degree of surrounding rock mass and the fracture propagation range decreases exponentially. © 2024 Tsinghua University. All rights reserved.
[46] Rui Yang,Xiao-Guang Wu,Teng-Da Long ,等.FDEM modeling of the fracture propagation behavior under the joint interaction of shale anisotropy and multi-lithologic stack[J].Petroleum Science,2025,22 (11):4656-4681,KeAi Communications Co.
摘要：Exploring the interaction between hydraulic fractures and complex geological conditions is critical for multilayered commingling production in the laminated continental shale oil *** this paper,a2D hydro-mechanical coupling numerical model is developed to investigate the fracture propagation behavior affected by the joint interaction of multi-lithologic stack and shale *** model adopts a smear approach to reproduce the mechanical anisotropy of shale observed from laboratory experiments with powerful finite-discrete element method(FDEM) to precisely capture the transition from elastic deformation to failure during fluid injection in layered heterogeneous *** results indicate that shale anisotropy affects hydraulic fracture initiation and propagation *** estimated breakdown pressure is 15% higher than that in horizontal homogeneous shale oil *** elastic anisotropy alters the stress trajectory and magnitudes,while the strength anisotropy affects the failure mode and fracture *** the combined two factors,the established fracture network reveals potent cross-layer abilities with less activation of weak ***,the sedimentary structure of thin interlayers hinders fracture height extension,resulting in a limited stimulated reservoir volume(SRV).Optimization of engineering and geological parameters could mitigate this limitation and efficiently co-develop the multiple sweet-spot pay *** field application,it is proposed to select a modest stress difference formation(K_v around 0.75-1.00) for ***,an alternated high/low injection rate can be employed to improve the cross-layer ability and activate the underlying weak planes,finally realizing an ideal *** key findings are expected to provide new insights into the fracture propagation mechanism and guide reservoir stimulation in continental shale oil.
[47] Weibing Cai,Ke Gao,Shugang Ai ,等.Node binding scheme based realization of extrinsic cohesive zone model (ECZM) to overcome the time discontinuity problem in 2D finite-discrete element method (FDEM)[J].Rock Mechanics Bulletin,2026,Elsevier Science
摘要：<div id="abssec0010"><div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="abspara0010">The intrinsic cohesive zone model (ICZM) has been widely employed in the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) to model the fracturing of solids involving transitions from continuous elastic deformation to discontinuous contact interaction. As an improvement to ICZM, the extrinsic cohesive zone model (ECZM) has recently been incorporated into FDEM to overcome the “artificial compliance” problem, which, in the meantime, also enhances the computational efficiency. However, ECZM has the drawback of the “time discontinuity”, in which the non-smoothness of local nodal forces occurs upon the insertion of cohesive elements. To address this issue, we propose an algorithm that achieves time continuity of local nodal forces by equating nodal internal forces with cohesive tractions between adjacent finite element pairs, thereby providing a smooth transition of the progressive fracturing process of rock masses. We benchmark seven numerical cases to verify the accuracy of our method. These simulated results suggest that our method can accurately capture and reproduce failure patterns of rock masses, similar to those observed in experimental studies. This work demonstrates the advantages of our method in modeling rock fracturing, further extending the applicability of ECZM in FDEM.</div></div> <div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="abspara0010">The intrinsic cohesive zone model (ICZM) has been widely employed in the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) to model the fracturing of solids involving transitions from continuous elastic deformation to discontinuous contact interaction. As an improvement to ICZM, the extrinsic cohesive zone model (ECZM) has recently been incorporated into FDEM to overcome the “artificial compliance” problem, which, in the meantime, also enhances the computational efficiency. However, ECZM has the drawback of the “time discontinuity”, in which the non-smoothness of local
[48] Xudong Chen,Zigong Liang,Andrew H.C. Chan .Simulating the damage of rubble stone masonry walls using FDEM with a detailed micro-modelling approach[J].Computational Particle Mechanics,2024,11 (6):2839-2855,Elsevier Science
摘要：Rubble stones are commonly found in many civil engineering components, such as foundations, walls. In general, rubble stone masonry walls are composed of irregular-shaped stone units and mortar. They are usually subjected to vertical and horizontal loads simultaneously and exhibit high degree of nonlinearity and discontinuity in service conditions. The combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) was employed to investigate the mechanical behaviour of rubble stone masonry walls in this study. In order to overcome the disadvantages in both macro- and simplified micro-modelling, a detailed micro-modelling approach was utilised, i.e. stone, mortar and stone-mortar interface were considered explicitly, providing close approximation to physical structures. Stone units and mortar were discretised into linear triangular elements with finite element formulation incorporated in, and therefore, accurate estimate on structural deformation and contact forces can be obtained. Damage of rubble stone masonry was evaluated through cohesive fracture models. Numerical examples were validated, and further parametric discussions were performed. Influence of stone unit pattern, ratio of stone and strength of mortar on the failure behaviour of rubble stone masonry walls was revealed. A very good agreement between FDEM results and experimental data was observed. It was found that the higher the ratio of stone, the better the bearing capacity, and uniform-shaped stone units with regular distribution were recommended. In addition, use of mortar with both tensile and shear strengths higher than 0.2 MPa was suggested.
[49] Zihan Liu,Louis Ngai Yuen Wong .On the GPGPU-accelerated thermomechanical coupling finite-difference method / hybrid finite-discrete element method (FDM/FDEM) model for geomaterials[J].Engineering Geology,2025,358 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Thermomechanical (TM) coupling analysis is one of the hot research topics in computational geomechanics. To address the large computational costs associated with high-accuracy simulations, General-Purpose computing on Graphics Processing Units (GPGPU) acceleration is a cutting-edge technique that enhances numerical efficiency. This study presents a transformative approach by presenting the CUDA-based TM coupling model that integrates the finite-difference method (FDM) with a hybrid finite-discrete element method (FDEM). FDM grids are used for thermal field calculations, while FDEM meshes are employed to compute mechanical responses. Bi-linear interpolation is applied to transfer the FDM results to the FDEM model. The versatile model supports both rectangular and circular FDM boundaries. To address the challenge of contact heat transfer problems, we introduce a heat pipe scheme for the FDM-FDEM model. Several CUDA kernel functions have been developed to calculate node forces, perform contact detection, compute contact forces, and evaluate the thermal field. A series of numerical cases involving rock plates, rock heaps, wellbore stability, ceramics, and radioactive waste repositories were conducted to validate the model's reliability. Comparisons of computational efficiency demonstrate that our model can achieve an overall speed-up ratio in the hundreds, significantly outpacing traditional models implemented in C language. These results highlight the potential of our approach to advance TM coupling algorithms and FDEM modeling.
[50] Xudong Chen,Weibing Ou,Andrew H.C. Chan ,等.Numerical analysis on the impact response of stone masonry arches with a GPGPU-parallelised FDEM[J].Computational Particle Mechanics,2024,11 (1):405-418,Elsevier Science
摘要：Stone masonry arches are composed of voussoirs, and they exhibit highly nonlinear and discontinuous characteristics under impact. A three-dimensional GPGPU-parallelised combined (hybrid) finite-discrete element method (FDEM) has been employed to investigate the impact failure of dry-jointed stone masonry arches in this study. The arch voussoirs are discretised into a number of constant strain tetrahedral elements, and each element is incorporated with finite element formulation, resulting in more accurate estimation on the deformation of voussoirs and the contact forces between them. Fracture of voussoirs is considered, and the transitioning from continua to discontinua is described using a cohesive zone model. Numerical results on the failure behaviour of a base case stone masonry arch are presented and validated with experimental records, and a good agreement is achieved. The influence of impact position, voussoir fracturing and angle of skew on the responses of stone masonry arches is addressed, and major conclusions are obtained as follows: (1) changing the in-plane impact position, the closer to the arch crown, the larger the structural response is; (2) changing the out-of-plane impact position, the global deformation of the arch is largely the same, except the impacted voussoir; (3) fracture of voussoirs results in increasing impact responses due to stiffness degradation; (4) a lower vertical impact resistance is expected for skewed stone masonry arches, and the impact resistance decreases correspondingly with the increase of the angle of skew. The FDEM has been demonstrated as an applicable and reliable tool in simulating the impact failure of stone masonry arches.