[1] Zhou, Jun,Yue, Zhongwen,Feng, Chun ,等.Experiments and numerical simulations on dynamic crack behavior at the interface of layered brittle material[J].Fatigue & Fracture of Engineering Materials & Structures,2022,45 (12):3546-3558,WILEY
摘要：Crack behavior at the interface between two materials is the core problem of layered material fracturing. In this paper, first, experimental tests were conducted on layered material using a drop weight test system following the caustics method. The layered material was made of poly (methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) and epoxy resin bonded with Loctite-330 at two inclination angles (30 degrees and 60 degrees). A corresponding numerical simulation was carried out using continuum-discontinuum element methods. Crack propagation is found to mainly occur in mode I in the PMMA and epoxy resin but follows a mixed cracking mode at the interface. The fracture parameters of the crack tip in the layered materials changed substantially owing to the existence and change of the interface structure. After the crack enters the interface, the crack propagation speed increases significantly. Higher crack dip angles are associated with greater crack propagation speed increases after entering the interface. The simulation results indicate that the interface strength properties affect crack behavior at the interface. This effect also varies as a function of interface inclination and impact velocity.
[2] Yi Dai,Shaokai Li,Yiming Zhang ,等.Continous–discontinous analysis of an unstable slope: evolution of damage zones and potential influencing areas[J].npj Natural Hazards,2025,2 (1):1-17,Nature Publishing Group
摘要：This study investigates a continuously deforming slope in Nanjing, China, active since 2003. We applied the Continuum-Discontinuum Element Method (CDEM), a hybrid finite-discrete framework to simulate the damage evolutions and predict potential impact zones. A seepage model incorporating hydro-mechanical coupling was used to assess the slope’s current condition. To evaluate its stability, the strength reduction method was employed, yielding a factor of safety (FOS) of 1.24 indicating that the slope is marginally stable state. The potential sliding mass is estimated at approximately 2 million cubic meters. Based on the stability analysis, a Particle Flow model was developed to simulate the potential landslide’s impact areas. The results indicate that the average velocity of sliding mass could reach 3.94 m/s, resulting in a deposit with a width of 602.9 m and a length of 831 m. 6 m, potentially abstracting the nearby national highway. Given these findings, it is recommended to implement comprehensive proactive defense measures to safeguard lives and property.
[3] 肖建成,卢景景,周辉 ,等.贯入角度对截齿破岩性能与几何排布的影响研究[J].岩土力学,2022,43 (12):3372-3384
摘要：截齿贯入角度是双轮铣槽机布齿系统设计中的关键因素之一。基于连续-非连续单元法(CDEM),建立截齿不同角度冲击贯入破岩的数值模型,通过断裂能本构模型实现岩体弹性-损伤-断裂的破裂过程,开展截齿有效角度50°~90°区间内的9组冲击贯入破岩模拟,研究贯入角度对截齿破岩性能的影响规律,讨论贯入角度对截齿几何排布的影响,总结布齿系统的截齿几何排布规律。结果表明,当贯入角度从90°降低到50°时,岩体由张拉-拉剪破裂向剪切-拉剪破裂转变,截齿平均贯入力与破碎程度提高,截齿的跃进式侵入特性的显著性减低;贯入角度为75°~90°的第Ⅰ类截齿与小于55°的第Ⅲ类截齿在破岩中起辅助作用,贯入角度为55°~75°的第Ⅱ类截齿可在岩体内部产生范围较大的水平非贯通裂隙,在布齿系统破碎岩体过程中发挥主要作用;2个第Ⅱ类截齿先后贯入岩体可较好地破碎截线间的岩体,可构成一类基本破岩单元,多个基本破岩单元按照正弦线形式排布,由此形成了一种布齿系统设计方法。研究成果为完善双轮铣槽机布齿系统设计方法,打破国外在双轮铣槽机布齿系统设计方法上的技术壁垒提供了理论基础。
[4] 孙基伟 .基于表征单元体的岩体连续-非连续耦合模拟分析方法及应用[D],2023
摘要：随着我国总体经济水平的提高,交通建设规模呈现持续增长的发展趋势。目前,我国的隧道建设主要集中于西南山区山岭隧道以及跨江跨海通道,这些隧道所处区域的地质条件错综复杂,在开挖卸荷、爆破动力扰动以及分布错综复杂的结构面的综合影响之下,隧道围岩会发生强度骤降、破裂、破坏等不良现象,极易诱发掌子面坍塌、隧道垮塌、冒顶等地质灾害,严重影响工期进度和工程安全。因此,亟需明晰隧道及地下工程的灾变破坏机理与演化过程。数值模拟方法不受环境的约束和限制,能相对准确的复现工程地质环境,节约成本与时间,是研究岩体灾变破坏机理的一种有效手段。在数值模拟方法当中,连续变形模拟分析方法计算效率高,但是难以模拟大变形破坏问题。非连续变形模拟分析方法可以模拟微观裂隙到宏观破坏的全过程,但是计算效率非常低。因此,为了克服这一难题,本文采用有限差分法(FDM)和离散单元法(DEM)进行耦合求解,结合连续和非连续模拟方法的计算优势,弥补二者的劣势,实现计算精度和效率的双提升。目前,连续-非连续耦合计算的模拟参数多以岩石室内试验测试结果为依据,未考虑结构面弱化作用和岩体尺寸效应,无法准确反映工程区域岩体的整体特性。因此,为克服岩体尺寸效应引发的力学参数误差,本文利用表征单元体(REV)解决模拟参数选取难题,为数值计算提供准确且科学的模拟参数,进而为工程尺度岩体灾变过程模拟提供高效且准确的有限差分-离散元(FDM-DEM)耦合计算方法。本文以基于表征单元体的岩体连续-非连续耦合模拟分析方法及应用为主要研究内容,在模型构建、参数选取、耦合方案等方面进行提升优化,改进传统连续-非连续耦合模拟方法的不足,实现隧道开挖卸荷过程的高精度、高效率模拟。总的来说,本文采用理论分析、现场试验、程序开发、数值模拟和工程应用等手段,主要得到了以下研究成果:(1)建立一种集采集、处理、统计、验证的全流程裂隙岩体多尺度结构面精细化建模方法。在汕头湾海底隧道施工现场开展三维激光扫描试验,采集得到裂隙岩体结构面的初始数据库。通过数理统计和聚类分析方法得到优势组结构面的分布模型及特征值。基于结构面数据和Monte-Carol方法建立离散裂隙网络模型(DFN),从而准确表征隧道掌子面裂隙岩体区域的结构面分布情况。从裂隙产状和裂隙密度两方面验证了 DFN的准确性,为后续表征单元体及等效力学参数的研究提供了模型基础。(2)通过试错法标定了岩石和结构面的细观参数,进而构建了多尺寸离散裂隙网络和合成裂隙岩体模型(SRM)。基于变异系数和差值比率的双量化指标来获取表征单元体,以裂隙密度作为分析岩体几何REV的研究对象,得到裂隙岩体的几何REV尺寸。选取岩体单轴抗压强度、弹性模量、泊松比、粘聚力、内摩擦角作为分析岩体力学REV的研究对象,通过单轴压缩模拟试验和三轴压缩模拟试验获取得到裂隙岩体的力学REV及其对应的等效力学参数。进一步,研究了裂隙岩体几何REV与力学REV关联性,分析力学REV与几何REV的内在规律。为采用连续变形模拟分析方法模拟裂隙岩体提供了理论基础和判断依据,并且为后续FDM-DEM连续-非连续耦合模拟分析方法提供更加准确、科学的模拟参数。(3)提出一种基于REV的岩体FDM-DEM界面耦合模拟方法,模型采用REV等效力学参数,模拟采用提前分区的策略,以FDM求解隧道远端未扰动区域,以DEM求解隧道开挖扰动区域,利用墙单元传递两个区域之间的力和位移。利用界面耦合方法模拟隧道开挖过程,与FDM方法计算结果和现场监控量测数据进行对比,验证了界面耦合方法的准确性和先进性。同时,界面耦合方法的计算效率是DEM方法的7.56倍,显著提升了计算效率,进一步验证了界面耦合方法的高效性。为工程尺度隧道开挖模拟提供一种兼具高效率和高精度的连续-非连续耦合数值计算方法。(4)建立一种岩体FDM-REV-DEM转化耦合模拟方法,提出网格位移阈值破坏判断准则,模拟采用全区域FDM计算,重点破坏网格对应的REV区域转化为DEM的计算策略,模型采用REV等效力学参数,从而保证转化前后网格与颗粒对应的宏观力学性质的一致性。基于转化耦合模拟方法模拟隧道开挖过程,与界面耦合方法计算结果进行对比,验证了转化耦合方法的准确性和先进性。同时,转化耦合方法计算效率是界面耦合方法的4倍,是DEM方法的27.4倍,进一步验证了转化耦合方法的高效性。最后,以汕头湾海底隧道F9断层破碎带及风化槽区域为工程依托,利用该转化耦合方法模拟多种工况,对比分析围岩位移场和应力场的分布特征,研究各影响因素(隧道开挖方法、开挖进尺长度和围岩注浆强度)对围岩稳定性的影响规律,提出了相应的施工参考方案,为隧道安全施工提供了一定的理论参考和设计优化依据。
[5] Zhao, Yufeng,Konietzky, Heinz,Fruhwirt, Thomas ,等.Gas Permeability Evolution of Coal with Inclusions under Triaxial Compression-Lab Testing and Numerical Simulations[J].Materials,2022,15 (23):8567,MDPI
摘要：Coalbed methane (CBM) exploitation leads to permanent stress redistributions in the coal bodies connected with fracturing processes and permeability changes due to deformation induced internal pore-fracture networks. Gas permeability evolution of coal samples is investigated with a newly developed three-dimensional fluid-mechanical coupled experimental system. X-ray CT is used to investigate the internal structure of the coal samples and delivers the basis to set-up numerical twins. The work focuses on coal samples with inclusions. A novel coupling procedure between two different tools-discontinuum and continuum codes-is established to simulate the permeability evolution. The permeability is related to the crack pattern in general, and crack width in particular. A prediction of permeability is proposed based on fracture distribution and microcrack behavior. The experimental studies validated the coupling approach. Shear fractures cause substantial permeability enhancement. Piecewise relations between permeability and volumetric strain can be used to fit the whole process, where a nonlinear exponential relation is established after the expansion point. The inclusions as important structural characteristics influence this relation significantly.
[6] Lin, Qindong,Feng, Chun,Zhu, Xinguang ,等.Evolution characteristics of crack and energy of low-grade highway under impact load[J].International Journal of Pavement Engineering,2022,23 (9):3182-3197,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：To analyse the feasibility of the low-grade highway as a launch site in military applications and improve the pavement crushing technology in civilian applications, this study investigates the evolution characteristics of a low-grade highway under impact load, including deflection, crack, and energy, via the continuum-discontinuum element method (CDEM). To this end, this paper proposes an energy statistics algorithm, and the correctness is verified. Then, a quarter three-dimensional numerical model of an asphalt concrete highway is established, and the effectiveness of CDEM in simulating the deflection of the highway under impact load is validated. Finally, an existing asphalt concrete highway structure is selected to study the evolution characteristics via numerical simulation. The results demonstrate the consistency between the variations of deflection at the load centre and the impact load. The deflection is primarily caused by the compressive deformation of subgrade. Crack planes mainly occur when the impact load increases rapidly. The variation of various constituent energies is different but closely related to the change in impact load.
[7] Xiao Jian-cheng,Lu Jing-jing,Zhou Hui ,等.Influence of penetration angle on rock breaking performance and geometrical arrangement of picks[J].岩土力学,2022,43 (12):3372-3384,SCIENCE PRESS
摘要：The penetration angle of pick is one of the key factors in the design of tooth arrangement system of double-wheel trench cutter. Based on the continuum-discontinuum element method (CDEM), a numerical model for picks to penetrate the rock at different angles is established, and the elastic-damage-fracture fracture process of rock mass is realized by the fracture energy constitutive model. Nine groups of impact penetration rock breaking simulations are carried out within the pick's effective angle range of 500 to 90 degrees. The influence of penetration angle on the rock breaking performance of pick is studied, and the influence of penetration angle on the geometric arrangement of pick is discussed. The geometric arrangement principle of the pick of the tooth arrangement system is summarized. The results show that when the penetration angle decreases from 90 degrees to 50 degrees, the rock mass changes from tension and tension-shear fracture to shear and tension-shear fracture, the average penetration force and crushing degree of pick increase, and the leaping invasion characteristic of pick decreases significantly. Type I picks with penetration angles of 75 degrees-90 degrees and type III picks with penetration angles of less than 55 degrees play an auxiliary role in rock breaking, while type II picks with penetration angles of 55 degrees to 75 degrees can produce a wide range of horizontal non-penetrating cracks in the rock mass and play a major role in the process of breaking rock mass in the tooth arrangement system. Two type II picks have successively penetrated into the rock mass between the better broken sections of the rock mass, two type II picks forming the mechanical model of the basic rock breaking unit, and several basic rock breaking units are arranged according to the sinusoidal form, thus forming a design method of tooth arrangement system. The research results provide a theoretical basis for perfecting the design method of the tooth arrangement system
[8] Jiwei, Wang,Tiankui, Guo,Ming, Chen ,等.Numerical Simulation of Fracture Propagation Morphology in Hydraulic Fracturing Development of Geothermal Reservoirs Based on the Cdem-Thm3d[J].SSRN,2023,SSRN
摘要：Reservoir fracturing stimulation is the key to constructing an enhanced geothermal system (EGS) for geothermal development in hot dry rock (HDR) reservoir. To clarify the crack propagation law of HDR fracturing, a 3D thermo-hydro-mechanical coupling simulation model of fracture propagation is produced based on the continuum–discontinuum element method (CDEM-THM3D). The correctness of the CDEM-THM3D model is validated by the theoretical solution of the nonisothermal soil consolidation model and Penny fracture model. Then, hydraulic fracturing numerical simulations are performed to analyse the influence of controlling variables on fracture propagation. The results indicate that the thermal tensile stress induced by injecting cold water can decrease reservoir fracture pressure and fracture extension pressure, causing an increasement in fracture width and a reduction in fracture length. Increasing thermal expansion coefficient and temperature difference enhances the effect of thermal stresses and even creates new branch fractures. A large elastic modulus favours an increase in fracture length, while large rock tensile strength and minimum horizontal stress lead to a decrease in fracture length. With increasing injection flow rate and fracturing fluid viscosity, the reservoir fracture pressure and the fracture width rise significantly, and the fracture easily breaks through the barrier of the high-stress compartment. © 2023, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[9] Zhou, Haifeng,Gao, Hui,Feng, Chun ,等.Simulation of Hydraulic Fracture Propagation in Fractured Coal Seams with Continuum-discontinuum Elements[J].Journal of Applied and Computational Mechanics,2021,7 (4):2185-2195,SHAHID CHAMRAN UNIV AHVAZ, IRAN
摘要：Creating new fracture networks in coal seams with natural fractures through hydraulic fracturing techniques is an effective method for exploiting coal-bed methane. In this paper, a continuum-discontinuum element method (CDEM) is developed for simulating and assessing hydraulic fracture propagation in coal seams. An elastic-damage-fracture model is proposed for capturing the deformation and cracking processes of fractured coal. A stress-fracture percolation relation is implemented to simulate the hydro-mechanical coupling processes. The influence of X-direction angles, mechanical strengths, distances and lengths of natural fractures are analyzed in detail. The results are potentially useful to optimize the fracturing design.
[10] Wang, Jiwei,Guo, Tiankui,Chen, Ming ,等.Numerical Simulation of Fracture Propagation Morphology in Hydraulic Fracturing Development of Geothermal Reservoirs Based on the Cdem-Thm3d[J].SSRN,2023,SSRN
摘要：Reservoir fracturing stimulation is the key to constructing an enhanced geothermal system (EGS) for geothermal development in hot dry rock (HDR) geothermal reservoir, which determines the feasibility of HDR geothermal mining and the overall economic effectiveness. To clarify the fracture propagation law of HDR hydraulic fracturing, a three-dimensional thermo-hydro-mechanical coupling simulation model of fracture propagation is established based on the continuum–discontinuum element method (CDEM-THM3D). In the model, the discrete element method is used to calculate the interaction between discrete blocks, the finite element method is applied to calculate solid deformation, and the finite volume method is applied to calculate the fluid flow and temperature propagation. The accuracy of the CDEM-THM3D numerical model is verified by the theoretical solution of the nonisothermal soil consolidation model and Penny fracture model. Then, hydraulic fracturing numerical simulations are performed to analyse the influence law of control factors on fracture propagation. The results indicate that the thermal tensile stress induced by injecting cold water can reduce the reservoir fracture pressure and fracture extension pressure, causing the fracture width to increase and the fracture length to decrease. Compared with ignoring the effect of temperature, when the effect of thermal stress is considered, the reservoir fracture pressure decreases by 3.3 MPa, and the maximum fracture width increases by 0.38 mm. With increasing thermal expansion coefficient and temperature difference, the effect of induced thermal stresses becomes more significant and even creates new fractures on the vertical main fracture surfaces in the rock. The increase in the elastic modulus of rock causes a significant increment in fracture length and a significant reduction in fracture width. The improvement in rock tensile strength and minimum horizontal stress increases the fracture pressure and decreases the f
[11] Wang, Jiwei,Guo, Tiankui,Chen, Ming ,等.Numerical Simulation of Fracture Propagation Morphology in Hydraulic Fracturing Development of Geothermal Reservoirs Based on the Cdem-Thm3d[J].SSRN,2023,SSRN
摘要：Reservoir fracturing stimulation is the key to constructing an enhanced geothermal system (EGS) for geothermal development in hot dry rock (HDR) reservoir, which determines the feasibility of HDR geothermal mining and the overall economic effectiveness. To clarify the crack propagation law of HDR fracturing, a 3D thermo-hydro-mechanical coupling simulation model of fracture propagation is produced based on the continuum–discontinuum element method (CDEM-THM3D). The DEM is used to calculate the interaction between discrete blocks, the FEM is applied to calculate solid deformation, and the FVM is applied to calculate the fluid flow and temperature propagation. The correctness of the CDEM-THM3D model is validated by the theoretical solution of the nonisothermal soil consolidation model and Penny fracture model. Then, hydraulic fracturing numerical simulations are performed to analyse the influence of controlling variables on fracture propagation. The results indicate that the thermal tensile stress induced by injecting cold water can decrease reservoir fracture pressure and fracture extension pressure, causing an increasement in fracture width and a reduction in fracture length. Compared with ignoring the impact of temperature, when the influence of thermal stress is considered, the reservoir fracture pressure decreases by 3.3 MPa, and the maximum fracture width increases by 0.38 mm. With increasing thermal expansion coefficient and temperature difference, the effect of induced thermal stresses becomes more significant and even creates new fractures on the vertical main fracture surfaces in the rock. The growth of the elastic modulus causes a significant increment in fracture length and a significant reduction in fracture width. The improvement in rock tensile strength and minimum horizontal stress greatly improves the fracture pressure and decreases the fracture length. With increasing injection flow rate and fracturing fluid viscosity, the reservoir fracture pressure
[12] Bao, Yiding,Sun, Xiaohui,Zhou, Xin ,等.Some numerical approaches for landslide river blocking: introduction, simulation, and discussion[J].Landslides,2021,18 (12):3907-3922,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：This paper aims to present several approaches for fluid-solid coupling applied in landslide river blocking simulations based on the Abaqus software. These approaches include the coupled Eulerian Lagrangian (CEL) model and the finite element method-smoothed particle hydrodynamics (FEM-SPH) model, which use discrete finite element meshed blocks to simulate landslides, and use continuum models of Eulerian material and SPH material for river simulations, respectively. Another approach is to use the Eulerian model with Eulerian material to simulate landslides and river at the same time. A physical model of an elastic plate subjected to time-dependent water pressure was applied to validate the selected methods in the fluid-solid coupling. The process was recorded and corresponding numerical simulations were performed. The results show that the simulated plate and water behavior is consistent with the physical model in all simulations. Afterwards, the methods were applied to a real-scale rock avalanche river blocking simulation and the processes of sliding mass movement, impulse wave behavior, and the formation of landslide dams were described and analyzed. Applied Eulerian materials and discrete finite element meshed blocks were used to simulate the sliding mass and similar sliding movement characteristics were obtained. However, discrete blocks have shown better potential for simulating more complex situations and processes leading to better mass movement and deposition results. In addition, discrete finite element meshed blocks and other similar discontinuum models can better reflect the structural characteristics of the source rock in the simulation. As for the impulse wave, the use of Eulerian model for simulating the sliding mass will lead to an abnormally high wave height. Whether to consider a water effect and how to consider it affect the shape of the landslide dams and the simulation results show the importance of fluid-solid coupling in the landslide river block
[13] 蒋亚龙,徐贞珍,刘泉声 ,等.基于改进NMM的深部煤巷围岩碎胀大变形模拟研究[J].煤炭学报,2020,45 (2):579-589
摘要：深部煤巷围岩碎胀大变形是一个从峰前损伤扩容到峰后破裂碎胀的连续-非连续渐进破坏演化过程。本文以数值流形方法为基本架构,发展了深部煤巷围岩破裂碎胀大变形模拟预测分析方法,主要进行了4个方面的研究:①在数值流形方法中植入Voronoi随机多边形环路自动生成算法,基于该几何表征方法发展了能够考虑岩体非连续面黏聚力和张拉强度的界面接触计算模型,构建了基于界面接触模型的岩体破裂算法准则;②构建了基于显式积分格式的数值流形算法,并引入Voronoi随机多边形环路自动生成算法和界面接触计算模型,搭建了基于Voronoi多边形环路构型的显式数值流形方法;③在上述算法改进的基础上,发展了基于软化单元法和删除单元法的煤巷开挖卸荷模拟算法;④基于上述改进的数值流形方法,对深部煤巷开挖卸荷作用下围岩渐进破坏演化规律与碎胀大变形力学行为特征、以及最终开挖损伤区的形成与分布特征等进行研究。研究结果表明,上述改进方法能够实现深部煤巷围岩复杂多裂纹扩展路径的模拟,并在同一架构下对围岩峰前损伤扩容连续变形-峰后破裂碎胀非连续变形进行仿真分析;通过该方法能够较好地对深部煤巷开挖卸荷作用下围岩破裂碎胀行为特征、围岩径向收敛变形特征以及最终形成的EDZ分布特征进行预测分析。
[14] Jiang, Yalong,Xu, Zhenzhen,Liu, Quansheng ,等.An improved numerical manifold method for investigation of fracturing expansion and squeezing deformation of surrounding rock mass in deep coal roadway[J].煤炭学报,2020,45 (2):579-589,China Coal Society
摘要：It is known that the fracturing expansion and squeezing deformation of the surrounding rock mass in the deep coal roadways is a continuum-discontinuum progressive failure evolution process which involves the pre-peak dilatancy damage and post-peak fracture expansion of ***, this process cannot be well described and quantified by either traditional theoretical models, analytical solutions or laboratory ***, it is essential to develop a numerical approach for the modelling of fracturing expansion in surrounding rock mass during deep coal roadway *** numerical manifold method is a continuum-discontinuum coupling approach which has been widely adopted in the numerical simulations of geotechnical *** most innovative feature of numerical manifold method is its two cover systems, which helps to solve both continuous and discontinuous problems flexibly and effectively in a unified ***, the interactions (including squeezing, slipping and debonding) among discontinuous interfaces as well as large deformation (including translation and rotation) can be easily captured using the contact algorithm of numerical manifold *** this study, a new modelling approach for the investigation of fracturing expansion and large squeezing deformation of surrounding rock mass in deep coal roadways is developed based on the original NMM *** main research work done is as follows:① A Voronoi tessellation technique is embedded into the original numerical manifold method to generate random polygonal loops, based on which an interface contact model considering the cohesion and tensile strength of discontinuities is developed accounting for the fracturing criterion of the rock mass;② An explicit integration version of numerical manifold method is developed, and the aforementioned Voronoi tessellation technique and interface contact model are embedded;③ Based on the above modifications, a roadway excavation modelling approach c
[15] 冯春,李世海,郑炳旭 ,等.基于连续-非连续单元方法的露天矿三维台阶爆破全过程数值模拟[J].爆炸与冲击,2019,39 (2):107-117
摘要：爆破开采是露天矿采选总成本控制的首要环节,数值模拟是进行露天矿爆破开采优化设计及爆破效果分析的有效手段。利用连续-非连续单元方法(continuum-discontinuum element method,CDEM)对露天矿的三维台阶爆破过程进行了模拟,通过朗道爆炸模型实现了爆炸作用力的精确计算,通过弹性-损伤-断裂本构实现了岩体损伤破裂过程的描述,通过半弹簧-目标面及半棱-目标棱的联合接触算法实现了破碎岩块碰撞、飞散及堆积过程的高效模拟。开展了小尺度单自由面爆破过程的数值模拟,计算给出的块度分布曲线、爆破漏斗体积等参数与文献中模型实验的结果基本一致,证明了CDEM及本文所述各类模型在模拟爆炸破岩方面的精确性。以鞍千矿南采区的露天铁矿爆破开采为研究对象,建立了3排21炮孔的三维台阶爆破概化模型,模拟了从炸药起爆、岩体损伤破裂到最后爆堆形成的全过程;计算结果表明,除后缘拉裂槽外,数值计算给出的爆堆形态、顶部鼓起高度等与现场的测试结果基本一致,证明了利用CDEM开展三维露天台阶爆破全过程模拟的可行性。
[16] Grubben, Tessel .Simulation of fluid flow through fractured rock, a smeared approach[D],2020
摘要：Geothermal energy reservoirs can be used as sources of renewable and sustainable energy, which technology resides on the harvesting of heat from deep rock formations. Geother- mal reservoirs that require permeability improvement are termed Enhanced Geothermal Systems (EGS). The presence of fractures will, on the one hand decrease the flow re- sistance in the reservoir, yet on the other hand, lead to a higher rate of temperature drawdown, which poses a contradicting dilemma. For a reservoir engineer, being able to predict and control the size, orientation and density of the fractures is thus a crucial component of the reservoir design optimisation. This study, therefore, aims to develop a model using DIANA Finite Element Analysis software that can simulate the flow through fractured rock. The modelling of a geothermal energy system is a complex challenge as the model should be able to represent the interplay between the geomechanical, hydraulic and ther- mal mechanisms occurring in the rock. A model of geothermal energy systems in the subsurface can be formulated as a coupled Thermo-Hydro-Mechanical fracture problem. The continuously coupling between these aspects is governed by the stresses, pore pres- sures, temperatures, deformation and fractures of the rock. Cracks are often represented according to a discontinuum approach because of a crack's discrete nature. However, when examining a THM fracture problem, adhering to a smeared approach is considered to be suitable as well. The smeared crack approach expresses the cracked rock as a material with equivalent anisotropic continuum properties. It is better capable at simulating fracture branching and representing multiple cracks with non-predetermined directions, and also poses computational advantages over the discon- tinuum approach. The fluid flow through a porous, fractured medium can be described by Darcy's law, whereby the permeability represents the permeability of the porous rock and the fracture networks. T
[17] Qunlei Zhang,Jinchao Yue,Chuang Liu ,等.Study of automated top-coal caving in extra-thick coal seams using the continuum-discontinuum element method[J].International Journal of Rock Mechanics and Mining Sciences,2019,122 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In order to investigate top-coal drawing regularity and automated top-coal caving technology in extra-thick coal seams, an approach coupling the particle element and the block element is presented based on the continuum-discontinuum element method (CDEM). Then, the constitutive model of hydraulic support is introduced into the CDEM to simulate the top-coal drawing process. Meanwhile, the Bergmark–Roos model for coal drawing of single support is extended into the collaborative coal drawing of multiple supports to optimize the automated top-coal caving technology. Finally, CDEM models of hydraulic support, armored face conveyer and coal-rock strata are established according to the field conditions of the “Tongxin Coal Mine”. Then, the top-coal drawing mechanism is analyzed, and an automated top-coal caving technology is proposed. The results show that under the interaction between hydraulic support and surrounding rocks, the final drawing body of initial top-coal drawing appears as an irregular, deflected ellipsoid shape. During different support-moving cycles, the coal-rock structure affects the coal drawing amount and support resistance. A statistical comparison of the coal-rock drawing amount based on 100 drawing openings indicates that the standard deviation of the coal drawing amount in automated, one-round coal caving is 1.83 m<sup>2</sup> less than that in traditional coal caving (8.23 m<sup>2</sup>), and the coal drawing amount from each drawing window is more uniform. For multi-round coal caving techniques, the average recovery rate remains at 79.4% and the rock mixed rate is less than 1%. Based on a comparison of several coal caving techniques, automated four-round coal caving technology is the optimal technology, in which the change rate of the standard deviation of the coal drawing amount as well as the top-coal recovery rate are both largest. © 2019 Elsevier Ltd
[18] 陈闻潇,石崇,李汪洋 ,等.基于连续-非连续耦合方法的降雨滑坡数值模拟研究[J].河南科学,2020,38 (5):763-770
摘要：为研究降雨滑坡过程和破坏特征,基于连续-非连续耦合分析方法,采用边界墙耦合方法建立了连续数值模型与离散元数值模型的耦合边界,利用连续模型进行降雨入渗的饱和-非饱和渗流分析,而后生成连续-非连续耦合模型.通过等效力的方法将渗流场和孔压场施加到离散模型中,进行了降雨影响下的滑坡过程耦合分析.通过案例探讨了该方法的可行性,分析了降雨耦合分析中阻尼参数对结果的影响规律.结果表明,通过连续-非连续耦合计算方式对降雨滑坡进行耦合分析,能够较好地进行降雨作用下滑坡过程和破坏特征分析,研究结论可为连续-非连续数值仿真在岩土工程中的应用提供参考.
[19] Bin Gong,Chun'an Tang,Shanyong Wang ,等.Simulation of the nonlinear mechanical behaviors of jointed rock masses based on the improved discontinuous deformation and displacement method[J].International Journal of Rock Mechanics and Mining Sciences,2019,122 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study further develops the discontinuous deformation and displacement (DDD) method to model the nonlinear deformation and failure behaviors of jointed rock masses. The improved DDD (IDDD) method is then proposed to provide a unified formulation for solving the transformation of rock materials from continuum to discontinuum. By embedding finite elements into model blocks, the deformation ability and stress distribution within blocks are refined, and the fracture of an intact block is permitted. Namely, the rock blocks containing a number of finite elements are deformable and can be broken into several smaller parts during calculation. The edges of damaged elements are new joints and mechanical interaction between neighboring blocks along these new interfaces is therefore allowed. A series of numerical tests are conducted to validate the correctness and effectiveness of the IDDD model in terms of bending deformation, frictional contact, strength characteristics, crack propagation, etc. Meanwhile, the failure mode of a block system and flexural toppling of a jointed rock slope are further analysed. The results are in good agreement with the theoretical analyses, previous studies and experimental data. Overall, the proposed IDDD method is effective and reliable to model the nonlinear mechanical behaviors of jointed rock masses and it has shown particular advantages over the conventional numerical methods. © 2019 Elsevier Ltd
[20] Yanhai Wang,Yongtao Yang,Hong Zheng .On the implementation of a hydro-mechanical coupling model in the numerical manifold method[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2019,109 :161-175,Elsevier Science
摘要：By using the MC system (mathematical cover system) and the PC system (physical cover system), the NMM (numerical manifold method) is able to cope with continuum and discontinuum problems in the same framework. In this study, a HM (hydro-mechanical) coupling model which is based on the “cubic law” is incorporated into the NNM for the purpose of modeling multiple crack propagation problems driven by water flow. A series of numerical examples have been conducted to evaluate the performance of the proposed numerical model. The results show that the proposed numerical model can not only simulate the processes of multiple crack propagation driven by fluid flow, but also can carry out hydraulic analysis of fissured rock networks with high accuracy. © 2019
[21] Clement Joulin .Thermo-hydro-mechanical coupling within a geomechanical multiphase model framework with special reference to fractured rock masses in the vicinity of a geological disposal facility for radioactive waste[D],2019
摘要：A novel numerical approach for the modelling of Thermo-Hydro-Mechanical (THM) processes in the vicinity of a Geological Disposal Facility (GDF) for the long-term storage of radioactive waste is presented. This work is based on a dual numerical code framework with a multiphase flow solver for thermo-hydraulic processes and a geo-mechanical solver for mechanical processes in fractured and fracturing rock masses. The method has a unique continuum-discontinuum configuration that allows each of the THM processes to be represented with the most suited formulation, thus improving the accuracy and complexity of the simulations. Thermal processes are implemented within the geo-mechanical solver using both an explicit and an implicit approach, the latter allowing the modelling of temperature over large time scales, an important feature in the context of geological disposal. Moreover, a novel thermal contact approach is presented to investigate the heat transfer between contacting solids and its application to heat transfer across fractures is discussed. Furthermore, a thermo-mechanical coupling formulation is derived in the geo-mechanical solver, enabling thermal expansion and thermally induced fracturing. Then, the THM coupling is finalised using a conservative projection method that enables information exchange between superimposed numerical meshes e. g. heat transfer between the thermo-hydraulic and the thermo-mechanical solvers. Both applications in porous media and with laminar flow are explored. Finally, the THM dual framework is applied to the modelling of thermal spalling occurring in the excavation walls of a deposition hole in a GDF. The potential of the method to offer new predictive capabilities and insights on unexplained experimental observations is demonstrated by considering the concurrence over time of THM factors influencing spalling, especially multi-phase flow in the continuum and explicitly represented fractures in the discontinuum.
[22] 刘广煜,徐文杰,佟彬 ,等.基于块体离散元的高速远程滑坡灾害动力学研究[J].岩石力学与工程学报,2019,38 (8):1557-1566
摘要：高速远程滑坡的破裂及致灾机制一直是滑坡灾害难点之一。为了深入高速远程滑坡灾害动力学过程,本文提出一种基于块体离散元法的黏结断裂模型,并基于图形处理器(GPU)实现了高性能并行计算,进而开发了地质体从连续到破裂解体过程的耦合模拟平台–耦合离散元程序(CoDEM)。在此基础上以2000年西藏易贡滑坡为例,系统研究了滑坡体的"高位崩塌区崩解启动–老滑坡体复活–碎屑流高速流动–堰塞体形成"的全过程。通过对比数值计算结果和现场地质调查资料,表明计算得到的堆积范围、物质组成与滑坡实际状态较为吻合。根据滑坡不同阶段的运动特征,将滑坡灾害区分为4个部分:启动区、缓冲区、流通区和刹车区。
[23] Gong, Bin,Wang, Shanyong,Tang, Chun'an .Study on the failure process of rock masses using the Discontinuous Deformation and Displacement (DDD) method[M],2019,CRC PRESS-BALKEMA
摘要：The nonlinear deformation and failure behaviors of jointed rock masses are studied using the Discontinuous Deformation and Displacement (DDD) method. The DDD method is able to provide a unified formulation for solving the transformation of rock materials from continuum to discontinuum. By embedding finite elements into model blocks, the deformation ability and stress distribution within blocks are refined, and the fracture of an intact block is permitted. Namely, the rock blocks containing a number of finite elements are deformable and can be broken into several smaller parts during calculation. The edges of damaged elements are new joints and mechanical interaction between neighboring blocks along these new interfaces is therefore allowed. A series of numerical tests are conducted to validate the correctness and effectiveness of the model in terms of bending deformation, frictional contact, strength characteristics, crack propagation, etc. The simulated results are in good agreement with the theoretical analyses, previous studies and experimental data. Overall, the DDD model is effective and reliable to model the nonlinear mechanical behaviors of jointed rock masses and it has shown particular advantages over the conventional numerical methods.
[24] 陈建峰,田丹,柳军修 .刚/柔性组合墙面加筋土挡墙内部破坏机制[J].岩土力学,2018,39 (7):2353-2360,Academia Sinica
摘要：基于离心模型试验成果,建立软土地基刚/柔性组合墙面加筋土挡墙离散-连续耦合数值模型,采用离散单元颗粒流程序PFC和有限差分程序FLAC分别模拟加筋土挡墙和软土地基,分析挡墙的变形、筋材拉力分布及内部破坏演化过程,并与刚性地基上挡墙情况进行比较,以探讨刚/柔性组合墙面加筋土挡墙的内部破坏机制。研究结果表明,数值模型计算结果与离心模型试验结果吻合,其内部潜在破坏面经过连接件锚固端位置,各层筋材拉力均在连接件锚固端位置最大;软土地基上挡墙和刚性地基上挡墙的内部破坏面均一致,且筋材均由下而上依次断裂;软土地基上挡墙内部破坏面与地基圆弧滑移面贯通,为复合滑动模式,而刚性地基上挡墙整体破坏模式为折线型,连接件埋深范围内加筋体沿其底部连接件水平滑出。
[25] Liu, Guangyu,Xu, Wenjie,Tong, Bin ,等.Study on dynamics of high-speed and long run-out landslide hazards based on block discrete element method[J].岩石力学与工程学报,2019,38 (8):1557-1566,Academia Sinica
摘要：The fracture and disaster-causing mechanism of high-speed and long run-out landslides is one difficulty of landslide disasters. In order to deeply study the dynamic process of landslides from continuum to discontinuum, a cohesive fracture model is proposed based on block discrete element method. High-performance parallel computing based on graphics processor unit(GPU) is achieved, and a coupling simulation platform called couping discrete element method platform(CoDEM) is developed. Taking Yigong landslide as an example, the whole process of higher body collapsing, old landslide body resurrecting, debris flowing at a high speed and dam forming is studied systematically. Comparison between the numerical results and in-situ survey data is *** is shown that the numerical results including accumulation boundary and material components are in good agreement with the actual situation of the landslide. According to the dynamics characteristics during the landslide at different stages, the landslide area can be divided into four parts such as the initiation zone, the buffer zone, the circulation zone and the braking zone. © 2019, Science Press. All right reserved.
[26] 冯春,李志刚,李世海 .脆性土石混合体单轴压缩特性的影响因素研究[J].计算力学学报,2018,35 (3):356-363,Editorial Office of Chinese Journal of Computational Mechanics
摘要：土石混合体在我国分布广泛且力学性质差异极大,研究其单轴压缩特性的影响因素至关重要。借助量纲分析,阐明了土石混合体单轴压缩特性与各影响因素间的无量纲关系。提出了一种块石随机生成技术,可产生指定级配的随机块石系统。借助连续-非连续数值模拟方法 CDEM(Continuum Discontinuum Element Method),探讨了具有一定结构性的脆性土石混合体材料的宏观力学特性及其影响规律,并重点分析了该类土石混合体的含石量、土石交界面强度与其宏观本构曲线、单轴抗压强度以及破坏模式的对应关系。研究结果表明,随着含石量的增加,脆性土石混合体的宏观单轴抗压强度迅速减小,含石量超过15%之后,单轴抗压强度基本不变。相同含石量及块石分布的情况下,随着交界面比强度的增大,宏观单轴抗压强度逐渐增大;当交界面比强度大于20时,单轴抗压强度基本不变;当交界面比强度小于1时,主要出现贯穿整个试样的裂缝;当交界面比强度大于1时,主要在试样中上部出现局部的压剪破碎。
[27] Feng, Chun,Li, Shihai,Zheng, Bingxu ,等.Numerical simulation on complete process of three-dimensional bench blasting in an open-pit mine based on CDEM[J].爆炸与冲击,2019,39 (2),Explosion and Shock Waves
摘要：Blasting mining is the most important part of the total cost control in an open pit mine, and numerical simulation is an effective method to optimize the design of blasting mining and to analyse blasting effect. By using the continuum-discontinuum element method (CDEM), the three-dimensional bench blasting process of the open pit mine is simulated. The Landau explosive model is adopted to precisely calculate the blasting effect, and the elastic-damage-fracture constitutive law is used to describe the damage and fracture process of rock. By adopting the semi-spring target face and semi-edge target edge combined contact algorithm, the collision, flying and accumulation process of large number of fragments is simulated efficiently. The numerical simulation of the small scale blasting process with the single free surface is carried out. The block distributing curve and volume of the crater obtained by numerical simulation are more or less the same as those obtained by experiment, which demonstrates that CDEM and corresponding models described in this paper are good at simulating the rock blasting process. Based on the blasting technology in the south region in Anqian open-pit mine, a generalized three-dimensional bench blasting model with 3 rows and 21 bore holes is set up, and the complete process from explosive detonation to muckpile formation is carried out. Numerical results show that, except the tensile crack behind the blasting area, the muckpile shape and heaving height obtained by numerical simulation are accordant with the ones obtained by field test to some extent, which demonstrates the feasibility to simulate the three-dimensional bench blasting by CDEM. © 2019, Editorial Staff of EXPLOSION AND SHOCK WAVES. All right reserved.
[28] Wei Wei,Qi Zhao,Qinghui Jiang ,等.Three new boundary conditions for the seismic response analysis of geomechanics problems using the numerical manifold method[J].International Journal of Rock Mechanics and Mining Sciences,2018,105 :110-122,Elsevier Science
摘要：The numerical manifold method (NMM) provides a unified approach to address continuum-discontinuum problems in geotechnical engineering. Owing to the dynamic nature of its governing equations, the NMM should be suitable for modelling dynamic problems such as those associated to earthquakes. However, due to the current limitations in far-field boundary conditions implemented in the original NMM formulation, NMM has not been used to carry out seismic response analysis. In the present study, three new boundary conditions have been developed to extend the capability of the NMM to conduct seismic response analysis: (1) the classical viscous boundary condition, which allows for the absorption of the seismic wave energy at the boundaries, based on the viscous boundaries, and the seismic motion input method is also proposed;(2) the free field boundary condition, which captures the free field motion and absorption of the reflected waves at the sides of the model. The algorithms to generate free field mesh and its coupling calculations with the main mesh are also presented;(3) the static-dynamic unified boundary, which models the transition from fixed boundary condition in static state to free field boundary condition in seismic state, thus ensuring the accuracy and consistency of the numerical simulation. Finally, five numerical examples are shown to validate the proposed methods. The numerical results indicate that the improved NMM can be successfully adopted for seismic response analysis. © 2018 Elsevier Ltd
[29] 顾刚,颜永国,冯春 ,等.复合地层盾构刀盘掘进速率及受力特性分析[J].隧道建设（中英文）,2018,38 (11):1895-1902
摘要：为探究复合地层中盾构刀盘的掘进速率及受力特性,基于连续-非连续单元法(CDEM),建立盾构-岩土体这一完整系统的数值计算模型。通过在CDEM中引入简单有限体积法、虚拟质量法、单元溶蚀算法等系列算法,实现盾构刀盘掘进全过程的三维模拟。建立5种刀盘面花岗岩占比的刀盘破岩数值模型,并对不同刀盘面花岗岩占比下的刀盘进尺、掘进速率、平均转矩、平均倾覆力矩等进行详细分析。数值模拟结果表明:1)在某一特定复合地层中掘进时,随着掘进时间增加,刀盘进尺基本呈线性增大的趋势,但进尺曲线中平缓段及速升段交替循环出现; 2)刀盘面花岗岩占比由0增大至100%,掌子面处拉伸破坏单元增加,剪切破坏单元减少,且刀盘的掘进速率呈指数衰减趋势,掘进速率降低88. 7%; 3)刀盘面花岗岩占比由0增大至100%,平均转矩值逐渐增大,增大比例为117. 5%,平均倾覆力矩值则呈现先增大后减小的趋势,且在花岗岩占比为50%时最大。
[30] Bing Du,Cangcai Zhao,Guojiang Dong ,等.FEM-DEM coupling analysis for solid granule medium forming new technology[J].Journal of Materials Processing Technology,2017,249 :108-117,Elsevier Science
摘要：Solid Granule Medium Forming (SGMF) is a new flexible die forming technology which uses solid granules as the soft die to form the sheet metal. The process numerical analysis of this technology involves the discrete element (granules) and the continuum solid element (sheet metal), as they belong to different solving system—the discrete element method (DEM) solving system and finite element method (FEM) solving system, now there is no effective simulation ways for this kind of problems. Based on this, this paper established a new FEM-DEM coupling method according to the force conservation principle. And the simulation platform based on this method is developed through Visual Basic, which can realize the interaction, inheritance and transmission of the calculating data between FEM and DEM, with it the problems of elastic-plastic mechanics in the contact between continuum and discontinuum are solved for the first time. Such as the influence laws of the shape and mechanical parameters of discrete object on the plastic deformation of the continuum could be obtained. The limitations and errors brought by using FEM alone to analyze the fission problems are also eliminated by this. Solid granule medium tube outer pressure compression forming is used as a carrier to build the FEM-DEM coupling model, with the simulation platform both the force transmission characteristics and the mesostructure variation rule of solid granule medium in the tube forming process were obtained, and the impacts of technical parameters on the plastic forming property of the tube were analyzed. The accuracy of FEM-DEM coupling method is proved by the forming tests. This article provides an efficient way to solve the coupling deformation problems between the continuum and discontinuum in the field of engineering and a good experience for the solution of complicated engineering problems which need to be worked out with the secondary development of software. © 2017 Elsevier B.V.
[31] 陈宇,王媛,董琪 .自适应连续/非连续体耦合技术在隧道工程数值模拟中的应用[J].河南科学,2017,35 (12):2002-2007
摘要：将自适应连续/非连续体(AC/DC)耦合技术引入隧道工程颗粒流程序数值模拟中.该方法先构建具有周期边界的可重复组块,将其压实、赋予黏结并达到力学平衡,再通过算法复制组块快速建立整体模型,利用可重复组块已预先达到力学平衡状态的优势,大幅降低整体模型达到平衡的时间,提高计算效率.设置多组不同岩体参数,运用AC/DC耦合技术和传统全颗粒模型两种方法构建模型,进行隧道开挖模拟,对比隧道拱顶沉降值.结果证明AC/DC耦合技术在隧道工程数值模拟运用中的可行性.AC/DC耦合技术的应用为大尺寸隧道工程颗粒流程序模型的构建提供了一个新的方法.
[32] Qinghua Lei,John-Paul Latham,Chin-Fu Tsang .The use of discrete fracture networks for modelling coupled geomechanical and hydrological behaviour of fractured rocks[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2017,85 :151-176,Elsevier Science
摘要：We present a discussion of the state-of-the-art on the use of discrete fracture networks (DFNs) for modelling geometrical characteristics, geomechanical evolution and hydromechanical (HM) behaviour of natural fracture networks in rock. The DFN models considered include those based on geological mapping, stochastic generation and geomechanical simulation. Different types of continuum, discontinuum and hybrid geomechanical models that integrate DFN information are summarised. Numerical studies aiming at investigating geomechanical effects on fluid flow in DFNs are reviewed. The paper finally provides recommendations for advancing the modelling of coupled HM processes in fractured rocks through more physically-based DFN generation and geomechanical simulation. © 2016
[33] Wei Wei,Qinghui Jiang .A modified numerical manifold method for simulation of finite deformation problem[J].Applied Mathematical Modelling,2017,48 :673-687,Elsevier Science
摘要：With many people contributing to its modifications and advancements, the numerical manifold method (NMM) is now recognized as an efficient tool to solve the continuum–discontinuum coupling problem in geotechnical engineering. However, false solutions have been found when modeling finite deformation problems using the original NMM. Based on the finite deformation theory, a modified version of NMM is derived from the weak form of conservation of momentum and the corresponding traction boundary condition. By taking the dual cover system as the displacement approximation, the governing equations of the modified NMM are formulated. A comparison of the governing equations of the original NMM and modified NMM illustrates the reason that the original NMM is not suitable for simulation of finite deformation problems. Three numerical examples are investigated to verify the capability of proposed method to predict static and dynamic finite deformation response. Numerical results show that the modified NMM eliminates the errors caused by large rotation and large strain, and obtains a good agreement with analytical solutions and the finite element method. © 2017 Elsevier Inc.
[34] 肖望强,刘启斌,蔡志钦 ,等.核乏燃料转运容器非连续介质缓冲器设计及验证[J].原子能科学技术,2025,59 (8):1742-1756
摘要：针对现有缓冲器填充的连续体材料受制于单一耗能机制而难以提升缓冲性能的问题,提出了一种核乏燃料转运容器非连续体介质缓冲器设计方法。基于连续-非连续耦合计算方法建立耦合模型,对不同缓冲材料、薄壁球壳壁厚、薄壁球壳粒径等方案进行了跌落仿真计算,探究了不同特征参数对缓冲性能的影响,并搭建跌落试验平台对各方案进行试验,验证了耦合模型的准确性;最后对缓冲性能最佳的壁厚0.3 mm、粒径32 mm薄壁球壳介质方案进行了9 m跌落试验验证,并通过相似理论推算出原型样机在该工况下的加速度为56.1g,包容边界剪切应力为215 MPa,轴向应力为867 MPa,均满足了相关标准要求。本文研究可为核乏燃料转运容器缓冲器设计提供新的思路。
[35] 马春辉,焦玉菲,涂颖 ,等.基于连续非连续仿真的PCCP受落石冲击响应研究[J].工程科学与技术,2025
摘要：为提升长距离调水工程的输水管道安全性态，采用连续-非连续仿真方法揭示落石冲击下预应力钢筒混凝土管（PCCP）的宏观动力响应与回填土细观力学特性演变规律。构建了落石冲击PCCP管道连续-非连续仿真模型，协调发挥了连续模型计算精度高、非连续模型能够计算大变形的互补优势；系统分析了PCCP各层材料的变形规律、各特征时刻回填土颗粒位移矢量和接触力链的演化过程，认为落石速度对PCCP的影响远超过落石尺寸；进一步分析了覆土厚度比值、冲击速度对PCCP管道的影响机理，认为当厚度比值为0.45左右时，PCCP上方回填土的防冲击效果增长最为有效。工程实例表明：连续-非连续数值模拟方法不仅能够准确分析PCCP管道的动力响应过程，又能深入刻画回填土的大变形特性，有效掌握PCCP管道的灾害防御能力。本研究提出了落石冲击PCCP管道连续-非连续仿真模型的建模方法，并揭示了落石冲击下的PCCP动力响应机理，对提升基础设施工程抵御崩塌、落石等地质灾害的能力具有重要意义。
[36] 黄锋,李硕,李思远 ,等.隧道爆破作用下堆积层边坡稳定性的耦合数值分析[J].科学技术与工程,2024,24 (26):11111-11120
摘要：隧道施工爆破荷载会对地表边坡产生较大的动力扰动,加上堆积层边坡自身稳定性较差,极易形成堆积层滑坡、隧道塌方等工程事故。以渝湘高速樵坪山隧道工程为背景,结合CT扫描技术和PFC中clump命令,建立土石混合体颗粒流堆积层边坡数值模型并开展动三轴试验对堆积体模型的力学参数进行标定,运用FLAC^(3D)-PFC^(3D)耦合分析方法研究隧道开挖爆破作用下不同堆积层厚度边坡的稳定性。结果表明,在爆炸应力波的作用下,随着堆积层厚度从0.25倍隧道跨径增加至1.0倍时,堆积层颗粒速度减少4倍左右且颗粒松动范围几乎消失,颗粒沉降量从2 cm缓慢降至1 cm后保持稳定,颗粒间粘结与张拉力链比值从2.2迅速增加至4.5,此后颗粒间的张拉破坏作用较小,颗粒间不易发生滑移,堆积层稳定性较好;在超过1.0倍隧道跨径后,爆破产生的塑性区面积基本呈对称分布,且接近于隧道横断面面积,塑性区位于基岩范围内且集中在拱顶和拱底附近;总体上,当堆积层厚度超过1.0倍隧道跨径后,可显著降低隧道开挖爆破对边坡的动力扰动影响,研究结果可为隧道洞口段的设计与施工提供理论依据。
[37] .基于FDM-DEM的高位危岩体防护网位置优化技术研究[J].铁道标准设计,2026
摘要：【目的】高位危岩体崩塌灾害严重威胁山区铁路运营安全，传统落石防护网布设采用简单的落石势能及轨迹计算作为依据，无法描述危岩体崩塌破坏形式及下落过程中由于自身结构面存在导致的撞击碎裂过程，导致计算结果与实际落石的运动轨迹与势能偏差较大，难以实现防护网的合理布设。【方法】基于连续-非连续介质耦合方法（FDM-DEM），结合连续介质方法（FDM）模拟岩体整体变形破坏、非连续介质方法（DEM）精准刻画块体撞击碎裂与离散运动优势，构建高位危岩体从启动破坏、加速下滑到滞留稳定的全运动过程数值模型，还原危岩体在自然工况下崩塌体破坏及撞击碎裂过程的运动特性。【结果】研究结果表明：崩塌体每次与地面发生撞击后，动能显著下降40%左右，基于动能变化规律，可将防护网分别设置在落石与地面两次碰撞的关键位置，能够最大限度发挥拦截效能；NPR防护网的实体模型反映了NPR钢绞线防护网在承受落石撞击后的受力变形状态，验证了NPR防护网防护大能级崩塌落石的有效性。【结论】通过系统分析落石运动过程中速度与能量的动态变化特征，充分利用落石在运动碰撞过程中的自然消能及解体作用，能够精准锁定落石防护网的合理布设点位。研究成果可为危岩体防护网布设位置的优化提供科学依据。
[38] 刘传奇,薛世峰,孙其诚 .水力压裂中裂纹扩展的数值模拟[J].计算力学学报,2016,33 (5):760-766
摘要：水力压裂是在高压粘滞流体或清水作用下地层内裂缝起裂与扩展的过程。由于包含岩石断裂和流-固耦合等复杂问题,对该过程的数值模拟具有相当大的挑战性。本文建立基于有限元与离散元混合方法的裂纹模型,模拟岩石裂纹扩展,实现了连续向非连续的转化;建立双重介质流动模型,裂隙流作为孔隙渗流的压力边界,孔隙渗流反作用裂隙的压力求解,处理了流体在基岩与人工裂缝中的协调流动;将裂纹模型与流体流动模式进行结合,建立断裂-应力-渗流耦合形式的力学模型,进一步分析了水力压裂的基本过程,综合多种数值计算方法,编写程序,在验证岩体裂纹模型与双重介质流动模型有效性的基础上,对压裂过程进行复现,将模拟结果与文献结果进行了对比,并讨论了所构建模型的优缺点。
[39] Gan, Quan,Elsworth, Derek .A continuum model for coupled stress and fluid flow in discrete fracture networks[J].Geomechanics and Geophysics for Geo-Energy and Geo-Resources,2016,2 (1):43-61,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：We present a model coupling stress and fluid flow in a discontinuous fractured mass represented as a continuum by coupling the continuum simulator TF_FLAC(3D) with cell-by-cell discontinuum laws for deformation and flow. Both equivalent medium crack stiffness and permeability tensor approaches are employed to characterize pre-existing discrete fractures. The advantage of this approach is that it allows the creation of fracture networks within the reservoir without any dependence on fracture geometry or gridding. The model is validated against thermal depletion around a single stressed fracture embedded within an infinite porous medium that cuts multiple grid blocks. Comparison of the evolution of aperture against the results from other simulators confirms the veracity of the incorporated constitutive model, accommodating stress-dependent aperture under different stress states, including normal closure, shear dilation, and for fracture walls out of contact under tensile loading. An induced thermal unloading effect is apparent under cold injection that yields a larger aperture and permeability than during conditions of isothermal injection. The model is applied to a discrete fracture network to follow the evolution of fracture permeability due to the influence of stress state (mean and deviatoric) and fracture orientation. Normal closure of the fracture system is the dominant mechanism where the mean stress is augmented at constant stress obliquity ratio of 0.65-resulting in a reduction in permeability. Conversely, for varied stress obliquity (0.65-2) shear deformation is the principal mechanism resulting in an increase in permeability. Fractures aligned sub-parallel to the major principal stress are near-critically stressed and have the greatest propensity to slip, dilate and increase permeability. Those normal to direction of the principal stress are compacted and reduce the permeability. These mechanisms increase the anisotropy of permeability in the rock mass. Fur
[40] 翁昊阳 .基于离散元的测试生产过程井壁岩石破坏机理及失稳判据研究[D],2022
摘要：测试生产过程中,一旦发生井壁失稳会造成巨大的经济损失。为了降低失稳风险,确定合理的测试、生产压差至关重要。然而,由于不同区域地层的岩石力学特性差异较大,以往研究中尚未形成形式统一的失稳判据,增大了压差设计工作的难度。因此,有必要针对常规地层(如中等强度砂岩层)和复杂地层(如含砾砂岩层、含层理地层、裂缝性岩层)开展井壁岩石破坏微观机理分析,建立一个具有推广意义的井壁失稳判据,以指导现场的压差设计工作。利用中等强度砂岩(UCS=17-19MPa)岩心,开展岩石物理、力学性质测试,获取了岩石的性质参数及破坏特征。开展井眼破坏的室内物理模拟实验,结合CT扫描确定了厚壁筒岩样孔壁失稳的临界围压为2.4倍UCS。通过尺寸效应分析,将实验结果推广到井眼尺度,井壁失稳的临界围压为1.4倍UCS。基于颗粒离散元理论形成了数值岩心构建方法,分析各微观参数对岩石宏观力学性质的影响规律,提出了标准化的微观参数标定流程。利用该方法建立了中等强度砂岩数值岩心,其变形、强度参数与室内实验测量结果误差不大于5%,用于开展井眼破坏的离散元数值实验,结果表明井壁失稳的临界围压为1.4倍UCS。通过离散元仿真模拟,揭示了井壁岩石破坏的微观机理:差应力导致的黏结断裂使岩石局部承载力降低,引发的应力重分布使损伤区周围岩石所受差应力增加,从而诱发新的黏结断裂,导致破坏向地层深部发展。根据井眼破坏的物理、数值实验结果,基于统一强度理论解析模型建立了新的井壁失稳判据,适用于中等-高强度地层(UCS≥18MPa),该判据的中间主应力影响因子b=0.29-0.34。工程实例的分析验证了失稳判据的准确性。最后,建立了适用于井壁稳定性分析的三维连续(FLAC)-非连续(PFC)多尺度耦合模型,开展了复杂地层的井壁失稳模拟研究并分析其微观机理:微裂纹总是最先沿着胶结弱面产生并逐渐发育连通,造成局部破坏;次生裂纹在发育过程中易沟通原生裂缝,形成裂纹网络,从而导致岩石掉块。井壁失稳判据在复杂地层的推广应用分析表明,应选择相对保守的影响因子(b=0.29-0.32)来降低失稳风险。另外,建立的连续-非连续多尺度耦合模型,可为石油工程岩石力学相关后续研究提供借鉴与参考。
[41] A Flatten,F Reusch,D Beck .The Application of Hydromechanical Mine-scale Modelling for Large Block Caving Operations[M],2016,Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy
摘要：Recent advances in the disciplines involved in simulating large mining operations provide increasingly precise and accurate methods for the study of cave mechanics; however, in large regional-scale models, hydrological aspects are often neglected or studied independently from the mechanical problem. There exists a great demand for a unified approach to study and simulate both the mechanical and hydrological phenomena that allows for a more detailed understanding of the effects of groundwater flow, dewatering and the impact on block cave mining *** paper presents a numerical framework that combines three-dimensional regional-scale hydrological simulation techniques for groundwater flow, together with non-linear continuum-discontinuum rock mechanics models, provides such a unified modelling approach. The underlying simulation technique is based on a coupled parallel solution formulation adopting single-phase fluid flow formulations into a discontinuous, strain softening and dilatant finite element model. This approach is adopted for the presented case study of a realistic block caving example in a simplified unidirectional coupling formulation, to investigate the effects of the mechanical analysis on the hydrological response. Here, particular emphasis is on the non-linear coupling of the deformable and strain-softening solid skeleton and fluid phase; eg the change of hydraulic properties with evolution of damage in the rock mass and large-to-intermediate scale structures due to ongoing caving operations. The importance of discontinuum structures is discussed, as mining-induced fault reactivation significantly influences the hydrological response.
[42] Cottrell, Mark,Hosseinpour, Hooman,Dershowitz, William .Deep fluid injection into fractured rock[M],2016,3 :2161-2169,American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA)
摘要：Deep fluid injection (DFI) into fractured rock is used as a disposal method for manufacturing waste water, produced water from oil/gas and geothermal development, and other waste streams. Fluids are typically injected at high pressures and at rates up to tens of barrels per minute. As a result, the process of deep fluid injection can cause profound changes to the effective stress. This alters the rock mass effective permeability and storativity due to the creation of hydraulic fractures, inflated (hydro-jacked) natural fractures, and critically stressed (hydro-sheared) natural fractures. This paper presents a Discrete Fracture Network (DFN) approach to deep fluid injection into fractured rock. The approach presented combines continuum and discontinuum geomechanics, considering the effect of discrete fracture shear and normal deformation on rock modulus and in situ stress. Stress and pressure redistribution during DFI is simulated to understand changes in fracture aperture, fracture transmissivity, and fracture storativity. This includes local volumetric strain, concentrating stress and increasing rock mass stiffness. This coupling can have significant implications for injection strategies, as stress redistribution potentially changes injectivity and modifies fluid flow pathways. The paper also addresses the risk of induced seismicity, and the risk for aquifer contamination from deep injected fluids through stimulated fracture pathways. The DFN approach provides insights to the use of deep fluid injection as a long-term waste disposal strategy. Copyright 2016 ARMA, American Rock Mechanics Association.
[43] Wu, Shunchuan,Zhou, Yu,Gao, Yongtao ,等.Research on application of coupling technique of adaptive continuum/discontinuum periodic boundary cell to equivalent rock mass[J].岩石力学与工程学报,2012,31 (SUPPL.1):3117-3122,Academia Sinica
摘要：The coupling technique of adaptive continuum/discontinuum(AC/DC) periodic boundary cell, as a new construction method of calculation model in PFC based on particle flow theory, was introduced. In this method, a compacted and balanced pbrick was constructed;and then it was replicated mirrorlikely to construct particles model. Therefore, with decreasing computing time and saving computing resource greatly, it can avoid the defect of consuming great time in the generation of model to reach the mechanical equilibrium state. Taking an uniaxial compression test of equivalent rock mass for example, under the same initial calculation condition, the results produced by AC/DC technique and general method were compared in uniaxial compressive strength, stress-strain curves and failure characteristics, displayed highly similarity. The research results show that the computational efficiency of AC/DC technique is much higher than that of general particles construction method, and the advantage will be particularly prominent with the increment of model size. So its implementation of AC/DC technique can lay a solid foundation for following scientific research of engineering-scale rock mass property.
[44] 倪小东,朱春明,王媛 .基于三维离散-连续耦合方法的堤防工程渗透变形数值模拟方法[J].土木工程学报,2015,48 (S1):159-165
摘要：针对单独采用连续体法或离散元法分析堤防工程渗透变形的不足,提出了一种三维离散–连续耦合方案用于开展渗流应力耦合分析。采用有限差分法(FLAC)分析全域渗流场,采用离散单元法(PFC)进行渗透变形关键区细观力学分析,依托于ITASCA系列软件的Socket I/O接口,进行二次开发,实现程序间关键信息动态实时交换。首先通过算例验证了该方法的有效性,随后结合相似准则,建立堤防离散-连续耦合模型,对堤防渗透变形问题进行分析,通过对薄弱区复杂水土相互作用进行实时跟踪,可以揭示渗透变形发展过程中系统几何特性和水力特性的非线性动态变化过程和相互影响特性。研究成果表明该三维耦合模型将对大型涉水岩土工程渗透破坏细观研究具有积极的促进作用。
[45] 司宪志,宁宇,石崇 ,等.基于连续-非连续方法的高填方边坡变形稳定性分析[J].河北工程大学学报（自然科学版）,2021,38 (2):53-60
摘要：为研究高填方边坡的稳定性,基于连续-非连续耦合分析理论,采用边界墙耦合方法建立了高填方边坡的连续-非连续耦合分析模型,利用强度折减的方法来简化降雨工况,参照实际滑坡工程案例,土体参数应折减15%,进行了降雨影响下的高填方边坡稳定性分析;对细观参数进行折减,求解得到边坡的安全系数为1.60,分析了边坡在极端工况下可能的变形破坏情况。通过该案例探究了连续-非连续耦合方法进行边坡稳定性分析的可行性。结果表明,连续-非连续耦合方法能够快速高效且直观地评估高填方边坡的稳定性。
[46] Ni, Xiaodong,Zhu, Chunming,Wang, Yuan .Analyzing the behavior of seepage deformation by three-dimensional coupled continuum- discontinuum methods[J].土木工程学报,2015,48 :159-165,Chinese Society of Civil Engineering
摘要：A three-dimensional coupled continuum-discontinuum method was used to study the behavior of seepage deformation to overcome the deficiency of single method such as FEM or DEM. In the coupled method, the finite difference method is firstly employed to analyze the whole seepage field, and then the discrete element method PFC is utilized to conduct a mesomechanical analysis of key zones of seepage deformation. Based on the socket I/O interface of ITASCA software and the secondary development with FISH, the real-time exchange of key information between programs can be realized, and eventually, the three-dimensional discrete and continuous coupling analysis can be accomplished. First of all, the effectiveness of the proposed method is verified by a simple example, and then, a discrete and continuous coupled model is established for levee based on the similarity criterion, so that the seepage deformation of levee can be analyzed. Through the real-time tracking of the complicated interactions between water and soil in weak zones, the nonlinear dynamic variation and the interactions between geometric features and hydraulic features can be disclosed. Research results also indicate that the 3D coupled model may play a positive role in the mesomechanical study of seepage damage. ©, 2015, Editorial Office of China Civil Engineering Journal. All right reserved.
[47] Minkley, W.,Knauth, M.,Fabig, T. ,等.Stability and integrity of salt caverns under consideration of hydro-mechanical loading[M],2015,CRC PRESS-BALKEMA
摘要：Based on a discontinuum-mechanical modeling approach for salt rocks, hydro-mechanical coupling effects such as the pressure-driven percolation of fluids, intergranular microcracking and hydraulic fracturing can be analyzed. Within conventional geomechanical simulation approaches, salt rocks have been predominantly regarded as a continuum, and the mechanical effect of micro- and macroscopic discontinuities has been widely neglected. In the grain scale, however, polycrystalline salt represents a discontinuum constituted of intergrown crystals, whose grain boundaries are micro-mechanical weakness planes that preferably fail under mechanical and hydraulic/pneumatic loading. Constitutive models developed at the IfG for the visco-elasto-plastic behavior of the salt grains themselves and an adhesive frictional shear model for the intergranular interaction are used to describe the mechanical behavior, while the hydraulic description of fluid percolation is realized using the cubic law for laminar flow. Only after overcoming a percolation threshold (minimum principal stress) the pressure-driven opening and interconnection of flow paths along grain boundaries is initiated in the salt rock, inducing a directional percolation in the direction of the maximum principal stress. Practical applications of this modeling approach are presented, e.g. the investigation of damage and percolation processes in a cavern contour during cyclic storage or long-term abandonment.
[48] Guo, L.,Xiang, J.,Latham, J.-P. ,等.Numerical simulation of hydraulic fracturing using a three-dimensional fracture model coupled with an adaptive mesh fluid model[M],2015,3 :2170-2179,American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA)
摘要：A three-dimensional fracture model developed in the context of the combined finite-discrete element method is incorporated into a two-way fluid-solid coupling model. The fracture model is capable of simulating the whole fracturing process. It includes pre-peak hardening deformation, post-peak strain softening, transition from continuum to discontinuum, and the explicit interaction between discrete fracture surfaces, for both tensile and shear fracture initiation and propagation. The fluid-solid coupling model can simulate the interactions between moving fluids and multi-body solids. By incorporating the fracture model into the coupling model, a methodology of using the new coupling model to capture fracturing behaviour of solids in fluid-solid coupling simulations is proposed. To solve the problem in the coupling model of having adaptive continuous meshes being used by the fluid code and discontinuous meshes in the solid code, a scheme to convert different meshes is developed. A single fracture propagation driven by fluid pressures is simulated and the results show that the modelling obtains the correct critical load and propagation direction for fluid-driven fracturing. Several important phenomena, such as stress concentration ahead of the fracture tip, adaptive refinement of fluid mesh as a response to the fracture propagation and fluids flowing into fractures, are properly captured. Copyright 2015 ARMA, American Rock Mechanics Association.
[49] Reginald B. Little .A theory of the relativistic fermionic spinrevorbital[J].International Journal of Physical Sciences,2015,10 (1):1-37,Academic Journals
摘要：The Little Rules and Effect describe the cause of phenomena of physical and chemical transformations on the basis of spin antisymmetry and the consequent magnetism of the most fundamental elements of leptons and quarks and in particular electrons, protons and neutrons causing orbital motions and mutual revolutionary motions (spinrevorbital) to determine the structure and the dynamics of nucleons, nuclei, atoms, molecules, bulk structures and even stellar structures. By considering the Little Effect in multi-body, confined, pressured, dense, temperate, and physicochemically open systems, new mechanisms and processes will be discovered and explanations are given to the stability of multi-fermionic systems for continuum of unstable perturbatory states with settling to stable discontinuum states (in accord to the quantum approximation) to avoid chaos in ways that have not been known or understood. On the basis of the Little Effect, the higher order terms of the Hamiltonian provide Einstein’s missing link between quantum mechanics and relativity for a continuum of unstable states. Such continuum of unstable, hidden states determines fractional charges and fractured dipoles (orbitals) that strongly couple with limitations of larger space and shorter times for coupling quantum magnetism (spinrevorbitals) to macromagnetism and gravity (via phasal and group dispersions, respectively) and vice versa and for coupling orbital electricity (spintransorbitals) to macroelectricity and classical (and heat) mechanics (via phasal and group dispersions, respectively) and vice versa.
[50] Chen, Jianfeng,Zheng, Xi,Li, Huili ,等.Coupling discontinuum-continuum simulation of a geogrid-reinforced soil retaining wall (RSW) on soft soil[J].土木工程学报,2011,44 (SUPPL. 2):33-36,Chinese Society of Civil Engineering
摘要：A numerical simulation was carried out to investigate the behaviour of a geogrid-reinforced soil retaining wall (RSW) with wrap-around facing on soft soil. Particle Flow Code (PFC), a discrete element method program, was used for simulation of the RSW with wrap-around facing while Fast Lagrangian Analysis of Continuum (FLAC), a finite difference method program, was used for simulation of the soft soil foundation. Coupling of discontinuum and continuum methods was realized through Socket I/O connection in FLAC and PFC. Microscopic analyses were performed on the deformation under the retaining wall, particle displacement field under the static load and soil stress distribution. The computed results then were calibrated with the measurements from the physical model test, indicating the coupling discontinuum-continuum method was appropriate.