[1] 张允,康志江,马郡伟 ,等.深层离散裂缝油藏多尺度流固耦合数值模拟方法[J].地学前缘,2023,30 (6):365-370
摘要：深层离散裂缝油藏介质类型多、尺度变化大,存在离散介质与连续介质,且高压下介质易变形,对压力敏感,现有的油藏数值模拟方法虽然考虑了离散介质,但没有考虑裂缝变形的影响,方法不再适用,为此创建了深层离散裂缝油藏多尺度流固耦合数值模拟方法。首先,提出了基质、微裂缝、中小尺度裂缝和离散裂缝的分尺度模拟方法,建立了多尺度离散裂缝网络流固耦合模型。其次,创建了不同尺度离散裂缝流固耦合数学模型,针对不同尺度裂缝中流体流动和应力敏感特点分别考虑压力敏感或流固耦合:微裂缝存在应力敏感,与基质一起采用压力敏感方法来处理,建立压缩系数计算方法;中小尺度裂缝随油田开发容易闭合,提出采用裂缝开启闭合计算方法,建立裂缝开启闭合的计算模型;离散裂缝控制着流体流动方向和规模,同时裂缝容易填充,需要采用流固耦合处理,建立流固全耦合数学模型。再次,建立了有限体积和有限元数值模型,流动问题采用有限体积法进行离散,应力问题采用有限元法进行离散,并通过收敛性相对较好的全隐式数值求解方法进行求解。最后,通过理论模型与实际油藏模型进行方法验证:采用二维固结模型数值计算结果能够较好吻合理论解,验证了方法的正确性;采用实际油藏模型计算,由于考虑了压力敏感和流固耦合问题,吻合性较好,说明本方法计算准确性更高。因此,针对深层离散裂缝油藏高压、高应力和介质尺度差异大的特点提出了一种新的多尺度流固耦合数值模拟方法,方法新颖且实用性强,为该类油藏高效开发提供了技术支撑。
[2] Zeng Qingyun,Zheng Mingxin,Huang Dan .Numerical simulation of impact and entrainment behaviors of debris flow by using SPH-DEM-FEM coupling method[J].Open Geosciences,2022,14 (1):1020-1047,DE GRUYTER POLAND SP Z O O
摘要：Increasing rain levels can easily destabilize and destroy particulate matter in mountainous areas, which can cause natural disasters, such as debris flow and landslides. Constitutive equations and numerical simulation are the theoretical bases for understanding the behavior of these disasters. Thus, this study aimed to investigate the impact of the debris flow and its entrainment behavior on gully bed sediments. We adopted a coupled analysis method based on elastic-plastic constitutive equations by considering the elasto-plasticity of slurry and the elastic characteristics of debris materials. The coupled method consisted of smooth particle hydrodynamic (SPH), discrete element method (DEM), and finite element method (FEM) (SPH-DEM-FEM). SPH particles represented fluid, DEM particles denoted solid immersed in fluid, and FEM elements represented the terrain and structures. The coupling analysis model was used to simulate the coupling contact of solid, liquid, and structures and to describe the entrainment behavior between solid and liquid phases. The model feasibility was verified by comparing the basic simulation results with experimental values of the dam break model and the rotating cylindrical tank model. The coupled model was then combined with the data management and modeling of geographic information system to simulate the 2010 Yohutagawa debris flow event. Finally, we explored the influence of debris shape-related parameters on the debris flow erosion entrainment process.
[3] Zhang, Xiaoyong,Long, Jianxu .Simulation Study on Highway Landslide Stability Based on FEM-DEM Coupling[M],2026,Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
摘要：In order to explore the evolution mechanism of slope instability, taking the slope containing clay and gneiss along a highway as the research object, the continuous discrete coupling (FEM-DEM) numerical simulation method was used to construct the slope model and carry out numerical simulation. The results show that the FEM-DEM coupling method can effectively overcome the shortcomings of the single simulation method, and realize the efficient and accurate simulation of the whole process of slope instability;The results show that the slope instability is characterized by four stages, i.e., local initial sliding, internal extension of sliding plane, formation of landslide mass, and sustainable development of landslide mass. There are significant differences in slope displacement, shape of sliding surface, and response of gneiss at the bottom of each stage;At the meso level, the contact force chain is 'loose at the upper part and dense at the lower part' and decays with time;Porosity and coordination number reverse evolution. The research results provide theoretical support and technical reference for rock slope stability evaluation and reinforcement scheme optimization. © 2026 IEEE.
[4] 王志亮,余浪浪 .深部大理岩真三轴力学特性离散元和有限差分耦合分析[J].爆炸与冲击,2024,44 (7):124-136
摘要：为了研究深部大理岩的动态力学特性,首先基于离散元PFC(particle flow code)和有限差分FLAC(fast Lagrangian analysis of continua)耦合法,对大理岩的细观参数进行标定。接着,对三维分离式霍普金森压杆(split Hopkinson pressure bar,SHPB)冲击模拟中的动态应力平衡条件及均匀性假设进行数值验证。最后,对真三轴应力环境下大理岩的应力-应变响应、破碎特征及能量演化机理等问题进行深入分析。结果表明:基于PFC-FLAC耦合理论的真三轴SHPB试验数值结果满足应力均匀性假设,模拟得到的应力-应变曲线与室内试验数据高度一致。峰值应力、峰值应变随着冲击方向上预压(下称“轴向压力”)的增大呈下降趋势。在轴向压力相同时,试样峰值应力增幅随入射应力的提高逐渐变小;当入射应力固定时,轴向压力对试样峰值应力有削弱作用,垂直于冲击方向的侧压则会提升试样的抗压强度。加载过程中声发射事件爆发期整体上发生在应力峰后段,并在此阶段试样内形成较明显的宏观破碎带。在真三轴动态压缩下,大理岩试样主要以拉伸裂纹居多,在总裂纹数中占比超过80%。试样从加载至破坏的过程伴随有能量的变化,达到应力峰值点时试样的应变储能达到极限,之后转化为以耗散能为主、颗粒动能等为辅的能量形式。
[5] Haitao Ge,Juan Carlos Quezada,Vincent Le Houerou ,等.Multiscale analysis of tire and asphalt pavement interaction via coupling FEM–DEM simulation[J].Engineering Structures,2022,256 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：With the aging of roads and the lack of resources for maintenance, a thorough understanding of the interaction between tires and asphalt pavements is crucial to optimize asphalt pavement surface design. Currently, most research on this interaction system is conducted using mesh-based methods in the frame of continuum mechanics, which are insufficient to model the discontinuity behavior of asphalt mixtures during their lifespan. In this study, the Contact Dynamics method is introduced to investigate this interaction system by coupling the finite element method (FEM) and the discrete element method (DEM). FEM is utilized to model the tire and capture the resulting contact stresses on the pavement surface, while DEM is used to model the heterogeneous structure of an asphalt mixture and examine internal mixture responses at the particle scale. Analysis of contact stress distributions for free-rolling and full-braking conditions proves the tire model's effectiveness. According to particle displacement and force distributions, particles tend to flow along the longitudinal direction and undergo a high tangential contact force under full-braking compared with those under free-rolling, resulting in mixture instability and damage initiation. This study offers an enriching supplement and expansion to mesh-based methods for analyzing pavement surface degradation under tire loads, which can provide insight into pavement surface design. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
[6] Feng Huang,Hao Zhang,Haoyu Liu ,等.Numerical study and multi-objective optimization of medical waste crushing tools: A DEM-FEM coupling approach[J].Advanced Powder Technology,2024,35 (6),Elsevier Science
摘要：The crushing tool is the pivotal component of the medical waste treatment equipment and is prone to wear and fracture. To improve its performance, the medical waste crushing process was numerically studied with the coupling method of DEM-FEM under various cutting angle designs of the crushing tool. The effects of different cutting angles on the elastic deformation and impact wear of the horizontal blade in the crushing tool were analyzed. To achieve the best deformation and wear, a multi-objective optimization method that combined AHP and EWM was proposed to determine the optimal cutting angle of the horizontal blade in the crushing tool based on the DEM-FEM results. A specific cutting angle of B80° was finally revealed to be the optimal design. © 2024 The Society of Powder Technology Japan
[7] Guofeng Zhao,Kunwei Pu,Ningning Xu ,等.Simulation of particles motion on a double vibrating flip-flow screen surface based on FEM and DEM coupling[J].Powder Technology,2023,421 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The surfaces of vibrating flip-flow screens have the advantages of high vibration intensity, non-blocking holes, easy depolymerization of clustered particles, and self-cleaning functionality, which are widely used in the classification of wet fine-grained granular materials. Various scholars have studied the screening performance, dynamics, elastic elements, and single-particle motion of vibrating flip-flow screens, however, relatively few studies have been conducted on the movement of particles, the elastic screen surface, and numerical simulation of particles on the elastic screen surface. In this study, the numerical simulation was conducted on the elastic screen surface and movement of particles based on finite element method and discrete element method coupling. The result of on a single elastic screen plate indicated that when the excitation angular frequency of the screen was 70 rad/s, the effect of different sizes of particles' stratification on the screen surface was better. The material on the double vibrating flip-flow screen surface exhibited the vibration excitation “filtering effect” on the screen surface;frequency-doubling signals in the vibration response of the stable, transition, and chaotic zones on the screen surface gradually increased, and the particles displayed stable, wave and chaos motions. With an increase in particle size, the particle velocity increased along the direction of the screen surface while decreasing perpendicular to the direction of the screen surface, and the velocity difference between the 10-, 16-, and 25-mm particles was small. A standard deviation analysis of the velocity value demonstrated that the velocity of 10 mm particles can effectively represent the movement velocity of particles on the screen surface. The velocity values in the x and y directions were 1.0725 m/s and 0.8303 m/s respectively. The feed rate had little influence on the movement velocity of the particles. © 2023
[8] Weibing Cai,Ke Gao,Yan Qiao ,等.A 2D continuous-discontinuous unified pore-fracture seepage model for hydro-mechanical coupling in the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) using node binding scheme[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,173 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) has been widely used to simulate the dynamic propagation of hydraulic fractures. In the conventional FDEM, a fictitious fluid exchange coefficient between adjacent finite element pairs needs to be specified to alleviate the discontinuous pore seepage in the continuous rock matrix domain. This commonly employed approach inevitably increases computational cost and introduces additional numerical parameters (e.g., fluid exchange coefficient). To circumvent these limitations, we propose a node binding scheme that not only ensures continuous pore seepage simulations in the intact/continuous rock matrix domain, but also allows discontinuous pore pressures on the two sides of a fracture. The computational efficiency of pore seepage simulation using the proposed approach is increased by ∼120 times for a model with ∼6000 triangle elements, and fictitious numerical parameters are not required. A suite of numerical benchmarks is conducted to verify the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed pore-fracture seepage model, and its capability of capturing the dynamic propagation process of fluid-driven fractures is also demonstrated. As an application, a typical example is employed to explore the mechanism of multiple hydraulic fracturing. The proposed hydro-mechanical coupling model may help enhance the applicability and accuracy of FDEM for unconventional energy exploitation. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[9] 权泽芬,纪可,袁强飞 ,等.基于ADAMS的舱门机构刚柔耦合动力学分析方法[J].民用飞机设计与研究,2025
摘要：在进行复杂的飞机舱门机构系统动力学分析时,由于构件的弹性形变将会影响到系统的运动学和动力学特性,考虑到对分析结果的准确性和精度性要求,必须把系统中的部分构件处理成实际的可以变形的柔性体,即需要考虑部分构件的弹性形变,从而建立系统的刚柔耦合动力学模型。以某型飞机舱门机构系统为例,分别介绍了舱门机构系统基于ADAMS的离散单元柔性化、模态中性文件柔性化以及BUSHING刚度连接柔性化三种分析方法,将三种刚柔耦合动力学模型与刚性动力学模型以及工程算法的载荷计算结果进行了对比,并分析了不同方法计算得到的机构载荷产生差异的原因。同时,根据ADAMS刚柔耦合模型计算的柔性体应力与Hypermesh有限元分析应力的对比结果,进一步验证了刚柔耦合动力学模型中应力分析方法的有效性。可以为舱门机构系统的刚柔耦合动力学分析及其系统内机构载荷提取与分析和相关柔性体强度分析提供方法和依据。
[10] Dalong Jin,Yidong Guo,Xinggao Li ,等.Modeling of reinforced-concrete cutting with shield rippers using FEM-DEM-coupling method[J].International Journal of Mechanical Sciences,2024,282 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：With the increase in the number of underground structures, it is common to encounter reinforced concrete (RC) pile foundations of existing buildings or bridges during shield machine tunneling in densely constructed urban areas. The cutting of RC piles with the shield machines is a challenging task due to cutter damage and cutting efficiency issues. In this paper, the interaction between a ripper and an RC was studied based on the FEM-DEM coupling method. A three-dimensional transient dynamic model of two typical rippers (angular ripper and curved ripper) cutting RC piles was established, respectively. In the FEM-DEM coupling model, the mechanical behavior of concrete was described via DEM, and the impact of steel bars in concrete was considered via FEM. In addition, an experimental verification was conducted to validate the effectiveness of the numerical results. The damage characteristics of the steel bars and concrete, and the force patterns of the rippers were analyzed. The influence of the geometric parameters of the ripper, including blade width, blade angle, and blade anterior angle on the cutting performance was also investigated through a parametric study. Some recommendations are made for the geometric design of rippers used for cutting reinforced concrete. The results of this study could provide some references for cutting RC obstacles with a shield machine.
[11] Kumbhar, Pramod,Swaminathan, Narasimhan,Annabattula, Ratna Kumar .Mesoscale analysis of Li-ion battery microstructure using sequential coupling of discrete element and finite element method[J].International Journal of Energy Research,2022,46 (9):12003-12025,WILEY
摘要：A mesoscale-continuum framework is presented for modelling the charging and discharging of a Li-ion battery electrode microstructure through a semi-concurrent finite element method (FEM)-discrete element method (DEM) framework. The framework accounts for (a) size changes due to stress-diffusion interactions within each active particle and (b) the inter-particle interactions resulting due to these size changes. The size alterations of individual active particles are captured through coupled chemo-mechanical equations using the FEM. The resulting size changes lead to the inter-particle interactions which are modelled using the DEM. A staggered approach composed of multiple cycles is implemented. Each cycle consists of sequential sub-steps of the FEM and DEM. This framework is employed to study the mono- and poly-sized assembly of the microstructures consisting of active particles. The packing fraction evolution agrees reasonably well with the theoretical and experimental predictions. From the simulations, it is observed that the polydispersity does not influence the final macroscopic packing fraction of the assembly upon charging or discharging. However, in assemblies with a lower packing fraction, the relative size changes among all the particles are almost the same, contrary to assemblies with a higher packing fraction, where the extent of the relative radii change is different across the particles. The framework can also handle the multiple cycles of charge and discharge, which can help studies concerning capacity fade and other associated phenomena in the future.
[12] 张永涛,冯美华,郝电伟 ,等.基于FDM−DEM耦合数值计算的层理性质对顶板稳定性的影响研究[J].煤矿安全,2026,57 (1):125-136
摘要：为探明层理性质对巷道顶板稳定性的影响,创建了一个耦合了有限差分法(FDM)和离散元法(DEM)的^(3D)数值模型。模型中,巷道两帮、底板和远场围岩由FLAC^(3D)创建的连续介质区域进行模拟,巷道层状顶板岩层基质则由PFC^(3D)中的黏结颗粒流(BPM)创建,层理则通过添加具有特定刚度和强度的平行弱面实现。研究中通过改变弱面的强度模拟层理性质不同时层状顶板在掘进卸荷作用下的破裂特征。研究结果表明:完整顶板中的裂隙分布呈穹顶状,而层状顶板的裂隙则沿弱面分布,层状顶板的破坏从临空层开始并往内部扩展;层理强度的增加会改变顶板中的应力场分布,进而影响顶板中的裂隙发育进程。PFC^(3D)/FLAC^(3D)的耦合策略能有效再现煤矿中的层状顶板在巷道开挖卸荷作用下的裂隙发育过程。
[13] Liu, Zhonghong,Ju, Nengpan,Zhou, Xin ,等.Large scale triaxial test and discrete element-finite element coupling simulation of mechanical properties of coarse-grained soil[J].成都理工大学学报（自然科学版）,2024,51 (2):291-302,Chengdu University of Technology
摘要：This article investigated the mechanical properties of coarse-grained soil io identify the internal relationship between its micromechanical fabric and the characteristics of its macroscopic deformation. By integrating laboratory-scale triaxial tests and discrete element-finite element coupling- based simulations, we established a three-dimensional numerical model of coarse-grained soil to replicate the content and shapes of large stone blocks. We used flexible confining pressure-induced loading and rigid block technology to optimize the microscopic models of the stone blocks, and conducted comprehensive numerical simulations of coarse-grained soll specimens by using the PFC (Partical Flow Code) program. The findings showed that the specimens exhibited a strain-hardening effect. Under a flexible confining pressure-induced loading, the specimens exhibited lateral bulging- induced deformation and developed “X”-shaped shear bands in the central region. The chains of the vertical contact force gradually intensified, and exhibited a trend oi interconnection. Our comprehensive analysis of the macroscopic deformation and micromechanical fabric of the soil showed that the degree of deformation caused by its compression along the vertical direction was more significant than that caused by its shear failure along the radial direction, and the degree of change in its vertical anisotropy was greater than that in its horizontal anisotropy. This indicates that the trend of changes in its micromechanical fabric and the characteristics of its macroscopic deformation were clearly consistent. © 2024, Chengdu University of Technology. All rights reserved.
[14] 余文颖,徐旸,张景昱 ,等.基于离散元-有限差分耦合方法的格栅加筋道砟力学性能分析[J].中国铁道科学,2024,45 (4):40-47
摘要：格栅加筋对有砟道床力学性能的改善机理尚不明确。开展柔性边界条件下的道砟压缩试验,并在此基础上采用离散元-有限差分耦合方法,建立精细化格栅加筋道砟仿真模型;采用室内试验与数值仿真相结合的方式,分析格栅加筋对道砟宏观及细观力学性能的影响。结果表明:格栅加筋能有效提升道砟的承载力和抗竖向变形能力,加筋后试样的应变能量密度增加50.0%;格栅能有效限制其周围道砟颗粒的运动,减少道床横向变形,在相同轴向应力作用下最大横向变形减少16.1%,格栅位置处横向变形减少63.2%;格栅加筋可有效提升道床的抗剪强度,加筋后道床水平承载力提高18.8%;铺设格栅能有效增强其上部道床的密实度,建议在超厚道床或线下基础不稳定区段铺设道砟格栅。
[15] You, Yuanyuan,Yang, Renshu,Zuo, Jinjing ,等.Optimization of blasting parameters in large structure mining sites based on similarity models and PBM-FEM-DEM coupling algorithm[J].中国矿业大学学报,2025,54 (4):796-810,China University of Mining and Technology
摘要：To address the challenges of high large-block rate and severe damage to the rear ore body in the segmented caving method without bottom pillars for mining with large structural parameters, the large structural parameter mining site at Gongchangling underground mine was selected as the research object. Using a super dynamic strain monitoring system, the dynamic evolution characteristics of the rear strain field in similar models under different charging structures and detonation modes were captured. The characteristics of block size distribution were analyzed using the Gates-Gadin-Schuhmann distribution function. A new PBM-FEM-DEM coupling algorithm was established, and numerical models were developed at the engineering scale to simulate various charging structures and delayed detonation modes. The throwing process of blasting fragmentation, characteristics of block size distribution, and mechanisms of damage evolution under different charging structures and blasting modes were revealed. The study determined the optimal charging structure and detonation mode for large structure parameter mining sites. Based on the findings, an innovative technology suitable for large-structure mining sites was proposed for efficient explosion energy utilization and damage control, featuring an "air interval charge + inverted V-shaped delayed detonation mode. " The research findings suggest that, under the inverted V-shaped delayed detonation mode with the charge coincidence degree of 0. 5 for air interval charges, the number of both large and small blasting blocks is smaller, and the distribution uniformity of blasting blocks is moderate. The minimum peak strain values recorded at various measuring points in the rear strain field of similar models are 1. 68 × 10-3, 1. 08 × 10-3 and 0. 27 × 10-3. Additionally, under this detonation mode, the DEM discrete element analysis indicates the moderate blasting fragmentation and minimal damage to the rear ore body. The research findings provid
[16] Dequan Zhu,Menghao Shi,Congyang Yu ,等.Tool-straw-paddy soil coupling model of mechanical rotary-tillage process based on DEM-FEM[J].Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,2023,215 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The working conditions involving rotary-tillage processes in the paddy fields are complex and dynamic, and certain parameters are difficult to measure in real-time. Owing to the lack of applicable analytical methods, the interactions among knife rollers, wheat straw, and paddy soil are not well understood, which prevents improvements to the rotary tillage quality in paddy fields. A dynamics model of the tool-straw-soil coupling system was established in this work using finite and discrete element methods to analyze the paddy rotary-tillage process. Soil bin test is crucial for verifying the reliability of simulation models and the accuracy of simulation results, the reliability and accuracy of the numerical model were verified based on a soil tank test. The results indicate that in terms of blade roller torque, mud disturbance, and straw embedment rate, for a single group of knife rollers throughout the three soil bin tests, the average torque was 11.99 N∙m, significantly lower than the 19.32 N∙m obtained from previous studies. The mud disturbance rate was 71.09%, and the wheat-straw burial rate was 85.64%, wheat-straw burial rate is slightly better than 83% obtained from previous studies. The errors between the simulations and the soil tank test regarding the knife roller torque, mud disturbance, and wheat-straw burial rate were 0.75%, 2.21%, and 4.83%, respectively. The proposed numerical simulation method reflected the variations in physical and mechanical parameters during the paddy field rotary-tillage. The proposed approach provides an effective method for visualizing and analyzing the rotary-tillage interactions and mechanisms in complex paddy field working systems. © 2023 Elsevier B.V.
[17] 沈泽涵,肖源杰,谭攀 ,等.基于离散元-有限差分耦合的摩擦型轨枕底部凹槽形状对有砟道床横向阻力的影响机理[J].中南大学学报（自然科学版）,2024,55 (10):3787-3802
摘要：摩擦型轨枕可有效增强有砟道床横向阻力,但目前没有相关设计规范,摩擦型轨枕底部凹槽对横向阻力的增加机制尚不清晰。为深入分析不同凹槽形状对道床横向阻力的影响并揭示横向阻力的增强机理,基于横向阻力现场测试和离散元-有限差分耦合方法建立三维轨枕-有砟道床-路基数值模型,从宏、细观层面研究5种不同轨枕底部凹槽形状对横向阻力的影响。研究结果表明:与普通型轨枕相比,不同摩擦型轨枕的横向阻力增幅存在较大差异,范围为35.1%~80.2%,且横向阻力随凹槽侧面积的增加而呈对数增加;由于底部凹槽对道砟颗粒的约束作用,轨枕底部与道砟颗粒的接触数增加,凹槽附近的接触力增大,接触力链分布更密集;摩擦型轨枕周围颗粒的位移和旋转受到更强的约束;摩擦型轨枕各向异性在轨枕出现位移后向水平面转变,这是增强横向阻力的主要细观因素。建议在有砟轨道的设计中,采用具有不连续槽的摩擦轨枕,并考虑以最大化凹槽侧面积为目标进行设计。
[18] 刘畅,黄笛,曹超 ,等.基于DEM-MBD耦合的液压挖掘机动力学仿真分析[J].机床与液压,2024,52 (5):180-185
摘要：在实际工况下,液压挖掘机工作装置受到的载荷较大且具有强时变性,因此工作装置各组成杆件及液压缸较易出现各种形式的失效。针对以上问题,选取某型号液压挖掘机作为研究对象,根据液压挖掘机工作装置实际挖掘物料工况,利用多体动力学软件ADAMS建立液压挖掘机虚拟样机模型并利用离散元软件EDEM建立物料模型。通过DEM-MBD耦合仿真分析方法,对液压挖掘机工作装置进行动力学仿真分析,主要获取挖掘物料过程中铲斗受力变化曲线、不同时刻铲斗受力云图,通过对其分析,能够获取铲斗在挖掘作业过程中受力变化情况,为铲斗的有限元分析、优化设计提供理论依据。
[19] Lyu, Ya-Ru,Wu, Lin,Wang, Yuan ,等.MACRO AND MICRO QUANTITATIVE STUDY ON IMPACT BEHAVIOR OF GLASS BEADSBY SHPB TESTS AND FEM-DEM COUPLING ANALYSIS[J].工程力学,2023,40 (6):245-256,Tsinghua University
摘要：In order to study the macro and micro impact behavior of glass beads, one-dimensional SHPB impact tests on glass balls with different relative densities were carried out. The coupled numerical model of SHPB impact test was established by discrete element and finite difference methods. The experimental and numerical results indicate that the glass ball experiences four specific phases under one-dimensional load, i.e., initial elastic response, yielding, lock-up and particle crushing. The average coordination of particles increases with the applied impact load but the increasing rate decreases gradually. This is because the coordination number is determined by both pore compression and particle redistribution which is caused by particle rotation and relative movement. Particle rotation and relative movement become more than more difficult with the compression of granular sample. The porosity of sample remains almost constant in initial elastic response, but decreases approximately linearly in the yielding and lock-up phases (grain redistribution). This is because the porosity is mainly determined by the bulk movement of particles, which causes compression in pores. The bulk movement of particles has not been developed at the initial loading, but after yielding the pore compression caused by the bulk movement of the particles develops linearly with the load history. The particle displacement is dominated by bulk movement;thus it is not sensitive to initial density. The particle rotation and relative movement need to overcome the lock-up effects which are closely related to the particle size distribution, thus they are very sensitive to the relative density. © 2023 Tsinghua University. All rights reserved.
[20] Yanfeng Zheng,Yiyang Su,Siyuan Li ,等.Analysis approach for coupling between membrane structures and granular systems combining finite particle method (FPM) and discrete element method (DEM)[J].Engineering Structures,2025,343, Part C ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The coupling between membrane structures and granular systems (such as sand, snow, hail, etc.) may readily induce the bagging effect of membrane structures, which should be considered in structural design and analysis. In this study, an analysis method for coupling between membrane structures and granular systems is proposed based on Finite Particle Method (FPM) and Discrete Element Method (DEM). Firstly, the analysis method of membrane structures based on FPM is depicted, in which the equations of motion of particles and the process of fictitious reverse motion to obtain pure deformation are presented. Subsequently, the approach for the analysis of granular systems based on DEM is introduced, and the contact search among grains and the calculation of granular contact forces are given. Moreover, the coupling approach is proposed, in which an enhanced point-to-surface contact search algorithm is proposed. The algorithm can prevent the omission in counting or double-counting of grains encountered in the conventional projection-based algorithm. Specifically, the algorithm is implemented through three steps: (1) delimiting the control range of each membrane element, (2) calculating the local coordinate of each grain by the inverse isoparametric mapping, and (3) determining the contact force according to these local coordinates. The effectiveness of this enhanced contact search algorithm is demonstrated through a validation test. An example of a rectangular membrane structure subjected to falling grains is also analyzed to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed analysis approach, and the influences of the numbers of grains and membrane elements on the results are also discussed.
[21] 杨文明,谢林生,王玉 ,等.SPH-DEM耦合模拟方法在啮合型双螺杆挤出机中的应用[J].化工进展,2025,44 (7):3748-3756
摘要：为探究啮合型双螺杆挤出机内固液两相物料的流动方式、颗粒受力及两相混合过程,本文采用光滑粒子流体动力学(SPH)与离散单元法(DEM)耦合的方法进行了仿真模拟。由于其无网格特性,SPH方法能够有效克服有限元方法在针对啮合型双螺杆这一特殊结构上划分网格困难的问题。基于所建立的流体单元模型、流体黏度模型和固体颗粒模型、颗粒接触模型等,对啮合型双螺杆的螺纹段和捏合块段内固液两相物料的流动混合过程进行了模拟,分析了固液两相物料分别在挤出机输送段和混合段的受力行为以及流动过程中的相互作用。模拟结果表明:流体包裹固体颗粒的混合物料在挤出机中的流动方式为随螺杆作周向转动的同时沿轴向方向缓慢推进,在加料12s后混合物料到达出口;混合物料在捏合块段的受力明显大于螺纹段,颗粒受到的法向力、切向力和流体力最大值均出现在第一个捏合盘区域;固液两相物料在捏合块段的填充程度和混合效果均高于螺纹段,混合后物料的Lacey混合指数高达0.9。
[22] 张志弘,韩勤锴,徐学平 ,等.大型永磁直驱发电机磁固耦合特性研究[J].中国电机工程学报,2023,43 (8):3217-3226,Chinese Society for Electrical Engineering
摘要：该文开展大型永磁直驱发电机磁固耦合特性研究。采用共形映射方法,计算考虑齿槽效应的气隙磁场标量磁势;基于离散电流元和磁等效电路模型,定量模拟发电机定转子局部的磁饱和效应,通过数值迭代得到气隙磁场强度分布;引入一系列均布的磁等效弹簧,模拟定转子之间的耦合作用,建立永磁直驱发电机磁固耦合有限元分析模型。以实际在役兆瓦级永磁直驱发电机为对象,通过电磁有限元计算结果验证所提出的气隙磁场强度分析方法;基于金风兆瓦级永磁发电机测试平台,开展转/定子耦合系统模态测试,与理论模型得到的固有频率和模态振型进行对比。在此基础上,分析气隙长度和转子转速对耦合系统固有频率的影响。研究结果对于准确评估发电机振动能量、规避危险共振点指导机组设计等均具有重要的参考价值。
[23] 田甜,张锴,张育维 ,等.基于有限离散元的硅薄膜电极断裂行为研究[J].中国科学：技术科学,2025,55 (4):753-764,Science Press
摘要：由于硅的材料特性,锂离子电池中的硅薄膜电极在嵌锂和脱锂过程中会经历显著的体积膨胀,导致电极内部出现裂纹扩展、闭合以及层间脱黏现象.本文使用有限离散元法(FDEM)建立硅薄膜的力-电化学模型,基于显式数值积分方法模拟锂离子电池中硅负极薄膜在复杂应力环境下的断裂行为,同时研究锂离子在嵌入与脱嵌过程中引起的浓度动态变化.该模型深入模拟了锂离子电池在恒流充放电循环过程中硅薄膜的裂纹产生与扩展机制,并指出电极与基底之间的脱层行为最早在脱锂阶段与裂纹的扩展过程同步发生.在此基础上,本文进一步探讨了硅薄膜表面粗糙度作为影响电极裂纹成核的关键因素,通过对比不同粗糙度的硅薄膜在恒流充放电条件下的模拟结果,发现表面粗糙度显著影响了起裂时间、累计裂纹长度和最大张开度等关键参数.本文为更深入地理解硅负极薄膜在循环过程中的失效机制、优化电池设计和提升电池性能提供有力的理论支持.
[24] 李云丽,杨振睿,吴文平 .FDM-DEM耦合方法模拟月壤水冰模拟物的SHPB冲击试验[J].计算力学学报,2025,42 (1):19-25
摘要：全球对月球的探索在近几年再次掀起一阵热潮,下一阶段的探月任务主要集中于对月球极地的取样与资源勘探,涉及月球极地水冰模拟物大量动力学问题的研究。本文采用有限差分法(FDM)与离散元法(DEM)的耦合方法,开展了月壤水冰模拟物的分离式霍普金森压杆(SHPB)试验模拟,研究了月壤水冰模拟物在冲击载荷下的动力学性能及损伤特性。通过与试验结果对比,发现本文提出的FDM-DEM模型能够很好模拟月壤水冰模拟物的SHPB冲击测试。获得了月壤水冰模拟物峰值强度与应变率的关系,发现月壤水冰模拟物表现出应变率增强效应,即应变率越高,峰值应力越大,这与砂土的应变率不敏感性存在明显差异。冲击过程中,试样的损伤随着冲击速度的增加而增大,但损伤持续时间变短。损伤裂纹首先出现在试样与压杆的交界处,随着试样的压实,试样内部产生裂纹,最终内外部裂纹相互扩展交汇,直至破坏。研究结果为深入理解月球极地月壤水冰模拟物的动力学性能和失效行为提供了重要的参考。
[25] 马明瑞,陈福振,严红 ,等.基于多分辨率SPH-FEM耦合方法的鸟撞问题数值模拟[J].航空学报,2024,45 (21):245-265
摘要：本文针对航空发动机风扇叶片鸟撞问题的数值模拟方法研究,提出了一种考虑有限单元自适应生成的多分辨率SPH-FEM耦合方法。首先,新方法通过在FEM单元内部插值点处设置一组背景粒子,克服了传统SPH-FEM耦合方法在耦合界面处对模型离散尺度的一致性要求;其次,新方法在传统有限元算法的基础上加入单元自适应生成算法和无反射边界条件,将计算过程中对模型所有单元的求解转变为对关键区域的部分单元进行求解,降低了计算成本。文章应用所建立的新耦合方法开展了多结构鸟体撞击航空发动机风扇叶片的数值模拟研究,分析了撞击的动态响应,揭示了叶片受鸟撞过程的损伤机理,对航空发动机风扇叶片抗鸟撞设计和提高飞行安全性具有重要意义。
[26] 胡皓宇,骆皓,倪喜军 ,等.空间宽频带磁场耦合的定子变齿槽比分立模块化对转双转子同步发电机电磁特性分析[J].电机与控制应用,2026,53 (4):409-419
摘要：【目的】本文提出并设计了一种轴向磁通分立模块化对转双转子同步发电机(DM-AF-CRDRSG),旨在实现多极对磁场耦合下的宽频电势调制与稳定发电。【方法】首先,电机定子采用矩形铁心6槽三相分数槽集中绕组,双转子激励(2/4极)与定子磁动势主导分量实现选择性耦合。其次,搭建样机试验平台,进行空载与负载试验,并与仿真结果对比。然后,利用Ansys Maxwell软件构建了11个磁路等效的二维有限元模型,齿槽比从1到3按等差分布,研究不同齿槽比下的电压波形特征。最后,将Maxwell 2D模型结果叠加折算至样机模型,对比分析仿真与试验的感应电压波形及谐波频谱特性,验证电机拓扑的可行性。【结果】仿真与试验的感应电压波形均呈现良好正弦性,且基本吻合。虽然仿真结果的谐波含量较高、幅值略大,但两者的一致性仍验证了DM-AF-CRDRSG结构设计的正确性与有效性。【结论】本文设计的DM-AF-CRDRSG在宽频磁动势驱动下具备良好的空间电势调制能力与稳定发电性能。
[27] 万丽荣,秦伟,刘文婷 ,等.基于EDEM-ADAMS耦合的挖掘机动臂疲劳寿命分析[J].煤炭工程,2024,56 (12):176-184
摘要：挖掘机动臂在挖掘过程中受力复杂,载荷多变,难以通过实测的方式获取铰接点载荷谱。为获取符合实际工况的挖掘机动臂疲劳寿命,文章基于离散元原理,采用EDEM-ADAMS耦合仿真的方法,对不同工况下挖掘机挖掘过程进行分析。在分析过程中,首先获取挖掘机动臂各铰接点在挖掘不同挖掘介质、偏载等工况下的载荷谱;然后利用Workbench获取挖掘机动臂在不同挖掘工况下的应力应变分布情况;最后基于S-N疲劳寿命分析方法,结合Ncode软件计算出各工况下动臂最小疲劳寿命,并确定挖掘机动臂易发生疲劳破坏的位置。该方法通过挖掘不同工况下物料精确模型得到的载荷谱更符合实际工况。通过有限元分析,验证了动臂载荷谱的准确性,提高了挖掘机动臂疲劳寿命分析的精确性,为挖掘机动臂的可靠性设计提供了依据。
[28] 谭攀,肖源杰,姜钰 ,等.基于离散元-有限差分耦合的轨枕垫对有砟道床横向阻力的影响机制[J].中南大学学报（自然科学版）,2024,55 (2):457-472
摘要：轨枕垫(USP)因其良好的减震性能已广泛应用于铁路轨道结构,现有研究大多集中于USP对轨道结构刚度和振动响应的影响,但对有砟道床横向阻力影响的研究很少。为深入分析USP对道床横向阻力的影响并揭示其作用机理,建立轨枕-USP-有砟道床-路基三维系统的精细化离散元-有限差分(DEM-FDM)耦合数值模型,采用典型重载铁路有砟道床横向阻力现场实测结果对模型进行标定和验证,进而模拟分析不同工况组合下USP对轨枕不同位置处(枕底、枕侧和枕端)的横向阻力、道砟颗粒运动和粒间接触力等宏微观指标的影响机制。研究结果表明:在相同的轨枕横向位移下,相较于无USP的轨枕,带USP的轨枕其枕底道砟颗粒运动范围更大,横向阻力也更大,且横向阻力增加部分主要来源于枕底USP的不平整性;USP刚度越大,道床横向阻力也越大;采用USP可增加枕底的横向剪应力和最大法向接触力,且两者数值均随USP刚度的增大而增大。
[29] 李鹏龙,罗宁,索云琛 ,等.力-热耦合作用下煤岩动力学特性和破碎机理研究[J].爆破,2024,41 (4):8-17,60
摘要：为了安全高效地进军深部煤炭资源开采,开展深地“三高一扰动”环境下煤岩的动态力学特性和破碎机理研究,采用自主改进的∅50 mm高温同步分离式霍普金森压杆(SHPB)试验系统,对25~200℃温度下煤岩进行动态冲击试验研究,并改进ZWT粘弹性本构模型建立考虑温度效应的煤岩动态本构方程,基于有限差分-离散元数值模拟研究高温效应对煤岩裂纹发育规律及其动态强度的影响。研究表明:高温冲击作用下煤岩的动态应力应变曲线可划分为四个阶段:压密阶段、弹性阶段、裂纹增长阶段和软化失效阶段;随着温度的增加,煤岩的动态抗压强度和动态弹性模量劣化明显,失效应变呈现增加趋势,吸收能则呈现W型波动趋势;破碎粒径减小,分形维数则呈现明显的线性增加,抗压强度越低,破碎程度越高,破碎模式更为复杂;基于ZWT改进后的动态本构模型良好地表达高温冲击后的应力应变关系,但对压密阶段的表达不甚理想;模拟和试验结果显示煤岩在150℃高温后水成分和吸附气体活跃析出,煤基质受热膨胀破裂,出现明显细观裂纹,并逐渐发育为贯通裂纹,其中以剪切裂纹为主。煤岩在100℃下动态压缩的裂纹发育从受撞击面发育贯通,高温劣化煤岩强度。研究结论为“三高一扰动”深部复杂地况下煤炭资源安全高效开采提供基础理论支持。
[30] 王明,徐长友,孟祥春 ,等.基于多耦合因素作用下扎哈淖尔露天煤矿南外排土场边坡稳定性研究[J].露天采矿技术,2025,40 (5):62-65
摘要：针对露天煤矿软岩排土场边坡在多因素耦合(自重、降雨、爆破振动、冻融等)作用下的渐进失稳问题,以扎哈淖尔露天煤矿南外排土场为案例,基于刚体极限平衡法、FLAC^(3D)有限差分法以及颗粒离散元法,系统揭示边坡破坏机理与边坡稳定系数。研究表明:边坡呈现双模式破坏特征—沿第四系弱层的坐落滑移破坏与排弃物料区的圆弧剪切破坏;在极端工况下,综合安全系数为1.20~1.25,符合规范要求的外排土场长期稳定条件;基于离散元动态推演,滑坡最大滑移距离4.3 m,体积9690 m^(3),速度0.4~0.7 m/s,不影响周边构筑物。研究成果为合理评价排土场附近区域构筑物安全状况提供准确依据。为其他类似矿山外排土场稳定性评价和周边建筑物规划建设提供借鉴。
[31] Tongtong Wan,Hainian Wang,Xu Yang ,等.Thermal contraction coordination behavior between unbound aggregate layer and asphalt mixture overlay based on the finite difference and discrete element coupling method[J].Computer-Aided Civil and Infrastructure Engineering,2024,39 (14):2140-2158,Elsevier Science
摘要：The constraint action of the unbound aggregate layer underneath plays an important role in affecting the temperature strains in the top asphalt layer. The focus of the present paper is to investigate the interactive thermal contraction mechanisms between the asphalt mixture and granular base layers to offer a new perspective in promoting the understanding of the thermal cracking disease. In this paper, both experiments and simulations were conducted for the thermal contraction tests. A novel numerical modeling of virtual composite structures was proposed using wall‐zone coupling operation based on the finite difference and discrete element coupling method. The experimental composite structures containing three types of asphalt mixture overlays and five types of unbound aggregate base layers were developed for verification. The thermal contraction and restraint mechanism were revealed from both macro and microscopic scales. The proposed numerical modeling shows a 94% high accuracy. The particle displacement vector and contact force chain could explain the thermal contraction behavior of composite structures. Smaller particle motion displacement or stronger contact force chain result in a higher restraint strain of the asphalt overlay. The thermal contraction behavior can be coordinated through the compaction and loosening of unbound aggregates. The material parameters and cooling temperature differences in the asphalt overlay have slight effects on the constraint action of a base layer, while the gradation and mechanical parameters of the unbound aggregate layer show significant impaction. The parameters, cohesion C and friction angle φ, show a quadratic function with the restraint coefficient. This work has significant guidance on the selection of pavement structure and materials to improve the thermal cracking problem and lay the basis for the mechanical theoretical calculation to predict thermal cracking.
[32] Prasad Adhav,Xavier Besseron,Bernhard Peters .Development of 6-way CFD-DEM-FEM momentum coupling interface using partitioned coupling approach[J].Results in Engineering,2024,22 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Fluid-particle-structure interactions (FPSI) govern a wide range of natural and engineering phenomena, from landslides to erosion in abrasive water jet cutting nozzles. Despite the importance of studying FPSI, existing numerical frameworks often simplify or neglect certain physics, limiting their applicability. This work introduces a novel 6-way CFD-DEM-FEM momentum coupling for FPSI using a partitioned coupling approach, providing a flexible and adaptable solution. Our prototype uses the preCICE coupling library to couple three numerical solvers: OpenFOAM for fluid dynamics, eXtended Discrete Element Method (XDEM) for particle motion, and CalculiX for structural mechanics. The coupling approach extends existing adapters and introduces a novel XDEM preCICE adapter, allowing data exchange over surface and volumetric meshes. Numerical experiments successfully demonstrate the 6-way coupling, showcasing fluid-structure interactions and particle dynamics. The versatility of the partitioned coupling approach is highlighted, allowing the interchangeability of different single-physics solvers and facilitating the study of complex FPSI phenomena. This article offers a thorough description of the methodology, coupling strategies, and detailed results, offering insights into the advantages and disadvantages of the proposed approach. This work lays the groundwork for a scalable and customizable FPSI simulation framework with a wide range of applications. © 2024
[33] 王立文,赵金凤,贺茂盛 .基于离散元-有限元耦合法的煤炭漏斗车装卸过程中隔板受力研究[J].铁道技术监督,2022,50 (2):82-87
摘要：在煤炭漏斗车标准和设计技术条件中均未规定隔板强度,漏斗车车体设计静强度计算中,未施加相应载荷进行设计验证。同时,某型号煤炭漏斗车在应用中出现隔板裂纹。为此,基于离散元-有限元(DEM-FEM)结合的方法,模拟煤炭漏斗车装卸煤炭过程,分析煤炭漏斗车车体隔板受力和强度仿真计算结果,并与煤炭漏斗车车体隔板现场测试强度结果进行对比。结果表明:装载煤炭过程中,隔板所受最大载荷大约为稳定时载荷的1.8倍;卸载煤炭过程受不同底门开启的影响,隔板所受载荷瞬间突增80%~112.6%。装卸过程中隔板所受作用力与高度之间呈非线性分布,仿真计算结果与现场测试数据基本吻合。这为设计煤炭漏斗车车体隔板时提供参考。
[34] Zhou, Chenyan,Chen, Ling,Zhang, Jianing .A CFD-DEM-FEM coupling method for the ice-induced fatigue damage assessment of ships in brash ice channels[J].Frontiers in Marine Science,2024,11 ,FRONTIERS MEDIA SA
摘要：Polar transport ships frequently traverse in the brash ice channel opened by icebreakers. Although the substantial ice resistance caused by direct collisions with the level ice is avoided, the hull still encounters collisions with the brash ice, leading to periodic damage and exacerbating the fatigue issues of the hull structure. To address the fatigue challenges faced by ships sailing in the brash ice channels, this paper proposes an ice-induced fatigue damage assessment method based on the CFD-DEM-FEM. Referring to the brash ice model test conducted at the Hamburg Ship Model Basin (HSVA), a discrete element ice model and a numerical brash ice tank are established using the CFD-DEM coupling method. The simulated ship-ice interaction is compared with HSVA's experimental results to validate the reliability of the numerical brash ice tank and ice load. The ice load time history resulting from the ship-brash ice collision is applied to the hull, and the hot spot stress time history under each fatigue sub-condition is calculated using the FEM. The improved rain-flow counting method is employed to determine the stress level of the hot spot stress time history, and the S-N curve method based on the linear cumulative damage criterion is used to calculate the total fatigue damage of hot spots. Finally, the results of the proposed method are compared with those of the LR method. This study can serve as a valuable reference for the ice-induced fatigue assessment of ships navigating in brash ice channels.
[35] 李晓光,李长洪,冯春 .一种块体–颗粒–杆件的耦合方法及其在隧道支护模拟中的应用[J].工程科学学报,2023,45 (6):1023-1033
摘要：为了模拟隧道开挖过程中边帮的失稳垮塌过程以及锚杆对隧道的支护过程,提出了一种基于罚弹簧的块体–颗粒–杆件的耦合方法.该耦合方法基于连续–非连续的数值模拟方法(CDEM),采用离散颗粒簇表征隧道周边松动圈以内的破碎岩体,采用块体单元表征松动圈以外的完整岩体,采用杆件单元描述锚杆及锚索等杆系类支护结构,采用插值耦合的方式实现杆件单元与离散颗粒及块体单元间力与位移的传递,从而实现高应力环境下隧道开挖失稳过程的模拟及支护效果的评价.颗粒与块体之间采用1根法向线性弹簧及2根切向线性弹簧进行耦合,法向弹簧引入拉伸断裂本构,切向弹簧引入Mohr–Coulomb脆性断裂本构.杆件与颗粒及杆件与块体之间的耦合模式基本一致,包含1根沿着杆件轴向的罚弹簧S_(gn)及1根垂直于杆件轴向的罚弹簧S_(gs),S_(gn)主要用于描述杆件与围岩之间的拉拔效应及推压效应,S_(gs)则主要用于描述杆件与围岩之间的侧向挤压效应.圆形盾构隧道弹性场分析、预应力锚杆加固矩形巷道模拟、全长连接锚杆对岩块的锚固作用分析、以及碎裂岩体中的隧道开挖支护效果分析等案例,证明了本文所述块体–颗粒–杆件耦合算法的准确性及合理性.
[36] 杨江坤,宋彦琦,马宏发 ,等.基于FDM-DEM耦合的岩石动态冲击特征方法[J].科学技术与工程,2023,23 (10):4309-4314
摘要：为探究动态冲击作用下岩石的力学特征,根据室内霍普金森冲击试验模型,基于有限差分(finite difference method,FDM)-离散元(discrete element method,DEM)耦合方法构建了三维分离式霍普金森压杆(split hopkinson pressure bar,SHPB)冲击数值模型,在模型入射杆端部施加半正弦冲击波进行动态冲击模拟,对三维离散元试样的动态应力时程曲线、裂纹时空演化等特征进行讨论,从细观力学角度分析岩石的动态冲击破坏过程。结果表明:三维耦合模型在动态冲击过程中能够很好地满足应力有效性检验,保证了冲击过程的可靠性;利用Fish语言编写的半正弦冲击波等效替代室内试验撞击杆的撞击作用可以在一定程度上消除入射波的弥散效应;动态冲击过程中,试样内部的裂纹发展可分为平静阶段、缓升阶段、陡增阶段和稳定阶段,且裂纹主要产生于应力峰后阶段,裂纹总量呈反Z形变化。
[37] 程珩,梁冬琼,刘燕 ,等.求解三维弹性力学问题的快速耦合方法[J].力学季刊,2023,44 (4):793-802
摘要：将多种数值方法耦合,充分利用各种方法的优点建立新的数值方法,是求解三维复杂问题的有效途径之一.本文将无单元Galerkin(Element-Free Galerkin,EFG)方法、有限元法和维数分裂法耦合,提出了求解三维弹性力学问题的快速耦合方法(Fast Hybrid Method,FHM).将三维弹性力学问题分裂为若干个二维平面问题,对于每个二维问题采用罚函数法施加边界条件,并推导其相应的积分弱形式,引入Shepard基函数的移动最小二乘法建立形函数,进而推导二维平面问题的离散方程.第三个方向上采用有限元法将这些二维离散方程进行耦合,可以得到原三维弹性力学问题的快速耦合方法数值解的求解公式.通过数值算例验证了本文快速耦合方法求解三维弹性力学问题的收敛性,将数值解与解析解对比,说明了本文方法求解三维弹性力学问题的有效性.
[38] 柏冬军,石广玉 .压电功能梯度层合梁的力-电-热耦合梁单元及最优振动控制[J].工程力学,2023,40 (3):14-26
摘要：给出了一个压电功能梯度层合梁振动分析的两节点力-电-热耦合梁单元,并将其用于功能梯度层合梁的振动最优控制。在这个多场耦合梁单元中,功能梯度材料的等效力学性能用Voigt或Mori-Tanaka模型表征;梁的位移场用Shi改进的三阶剪切变形板理论描述;压电层的电势场用Layer-wise理论分层表征,且呈高阶非线性电势场的压电层可离散成数个子层。用Hamilton原理推导了压电功能梯度梁的力-电-热耦合单元列式,用拟协调元法给出了多场耦合梁单元的高计算效率的显式单元刚度矩阵,以及采用线性二次型(LQR)最优控制算法进行压电功能梯度层合梁的最优振动控制。使用所得力-电-热耦合梁单元进行了压电功能梯度层合梁的静力和动力分析。数值算例表明,所得力-电-热耦合梁单元可靠、准确和高效,LQR最优控制算法得到最优控制电压可有效抑制功能梯度梁的振动且实现控制系统能量的优化。
[39] 孙建,王秋良,程军胜 ,等.脉冲大电流直线驱动装置电-磁-热-结构多场耦合的局域建模方法[J].物理学报,2024,73 (10):352-361
摘要：脉冲大电流直线驱动装置运行过程中产生的极端工况导致多种损伤形式.为了研究多场耦合过程并分析多物理参量作用机理,建立了动态下的电磁场、温度场、结构场数学物理模型.利用轨道反向运动及接触远端物理量渐进平移不变的特性进行局域求解.模型还考虑了材料属性温度依赖性,热应力,接触面摩擦热等实际因素.各个物理场采用同一套网格体系,电磁场以及温度场的有限元离散格式采用欧拉向后差分形式求解,结构场则采用Newmark法进行求解,完成多场耦合下的数值模拟.通过与数值工具EMAP3D、Comsolol在相同模型和输入条件下的计算结果以及相关实验比较,验证了该模型的可靠性.本文采用一种C型电枢进行案例计算,得到了多参量的典型演化过程,并对速度趋肤效应下的场分布进行了讨论.
[40] 徐涛龙,邵常宁,兰旭彬 ,等.粒子法和离散元法在管土耦合分析中的应用[J].工程力学,2022,39 (S1):239-249,Tsinghua University
摘要：为克服管土耦合分析中土体分层、压缩、运移、流变等大变形问题,传统有限元分析技术需借助新的土体模拟及耦合方法。其中,基于纯拉格朗日的粒子法(PM)和细观离散单元理论的离散元法(DEM),因其在土体大变形领域的独特优势而得到广泛关注。针对管道沿线最常见的地质灾害和第三方扰动行为,利用光滑粒子流体动力学(SPH)分析土质滑坡大变形、黏性泥石流冲刷下管道的受力变形特征,获取管道受土中近场爆炸冲击下的动态响应规律,精确模拟了爆炸土中成腔、土体层裂、压缩等现象,联合离散元法中的颗粒流软件(PFC)与三维有限差分程序(FLAC 3D)再现挖机多铲掘进下土体的运移过程,得到管体的载荷累积效应。多次实践表明:以SPH为代表的粒子法和以PFC为代表的离散元法均能较好解决管土耦合分析中土体的非线性大变形问题,引入流体动力学手段,达到了土体变形研究方法多元化的目的,为进一步研究土中多物理场耦合响应机理奠定了基础。
[41] 汪优,李国鹏,王瑞 ,等.基于DEM-FDM耦合模拟的盾构隧道浆液扩散特性研究[J].工程地质学报,2025,33 (2):667-678
摘要：盾构隧道注浆对于保障隧道的后期沉降稳定以及减缓地表沉降具有重要意义,然而目前大多盾构施工过程中的注浆工作缺乏完整系统的理论参考,尤其是其数值实现,更是鲜有开展。针对盾构施工过程中的壁后注浆,开展了基于DEM-FDM耦合及颗粒生成器的数值仿真,以实现精细化模拟浆液自注浆孔注入盾尾间隙并对围岩及管片产生浆液压力的过程。研究分析了两种盾尾间隙形式时,浆液在管片后间隙中的扩散状态以及对于围岩的挤密效应。结果表明,浆液在盾尾间隙中的扩散可分为以各注浆孔为起始点的扩散阶段、各个注浆孔注入的浆液泡相互连接接触阶段,以及最终的间隙填充阶段3个阶段;注浆过程中,浆液以一定初速度喷射进入盾尾间隙,但浆液向两侧及向上的扩散速度缓慢,因此造成应力快速增大,而当停止注浆后,浆液压力逐渐消散稳定,呈现出下降趋势;浆液注入盾尾间隙后能够显著减小地表沉降。
[42] 秦立科,陈国栋,徐国强 ,等.基于有限元-离散元耦合矿石强度在微波照射下变化规律研究[J].有色金属（中英文）,2022,12 (5):94-105
摘要：针对以往研究中有限元无法模拟裂纹开展以及离散元无法考虑试块中微波不均匀性的问题,采用有限元-离散元耦合方法模拟微波弱化矿物的过程,监测模型中强度、温度、裂纹变化情况,根据强度变化分析黄铁矿粒径、含量及微波功率对强度弱化效果的影响。结果显示,微波可以有效降低矿物强度;黄铁矿粒径、含量对微波弱化矿物效果的影响不大,微波功率对弱化效果有着重要影响;矿物强度降低主要发生在一段时间内。结果表明:有限元-离散元耦合方法可以更加准确地描述微波辅助矿物解离情况;微波辅助矿物解离可以用于含不同粒径、不同含量黄铁矿的矿物解离,提高微波功率、选择合适的照射时间可以有效提高能量利用效率。
[43] 崔向阳,贺煜峰,胡鑫 .基于新型声固耦合方法的汽车振动噪声响应分析[J].机械工程学报,2022,58 (13):137-146
摘要：针对传统基于有限元的声固耦合分析方法由于色散误差过大仅适用于低频分析的问题,耦合声学梯度加权有限元法(Gradient-weighted finite element method,GW-FEM)和基于虚拟中心点的离散剪切间隙板壳单元(Centralpoint-based discrete shear gap method,CPDSG),发展了一种精确、高效的新型声固耦合分析方法 GW/CPDSG。基于梯度加权有限元法对声压梯度进行加权重构,采用基于虚拟中心点的离散剪切间隙板壳单元重构板壳单元的剪切应变场,并通过耦合界面处声场和结构场的相容性和平衡条件最终建立系统的耦合方程。将所建立的耦合模型应用于汽车乘员舱声固耦合系统频率响应的分析,数值结果表明,GW/CPDSG方法对中低频声固耦合问题的预测精度显著高于有限元/有限元耦合方法,尤其是对复杂系统声固耦合响应的预测更是表现出了良好的适应性和可靠性,可有效提升可分析频率的上限,降低大规模问题的计算成本,在实际工程问题中具有广阔的应用前景。
[44] 李瑜,张卓玥,蔡文涛 .多孔介质流的BDF2有限元解的误差分析[J].杭州电子科技大学学报（自然科学版）,2023,43 (4):50-56
摘要：提出多孔介质流方程的一种全离散有限元格式。在时间上采用2阶向后差分(Backward Differentiation Formula,BDF)有限元数值格式BDF2方法离散,空间上采用Galerkin-Galerkin有限元方法离散。由于非线性耦合项的存在,使得压力的有限元解的低阶精度“污染”了浓度的有限元解的误差估计,引入一个拟椭圆投影“切断”压力有限元解和浓度有限元解的联系。对浓度项和压力项采用同阶的有限元空间进行离散,进一步分析得到关于浓度和压力的有限元解的无条件最优L^(∞)(0,T;L^(2))误差估计。
[45] 杨冬宝,高俊松,刘建平 ,等.基于DEM-FEM耦合方法的海上风机结构冰激振动分析[J].力学学报,2021,53 (3):682-692
摘要：冰载荷是海上风机在寒区安全运行的重要影响因素之一,由其引发的冰激振动给风机结构带来了严重的危害.本文通过离散元(discrete element method, DEM)--有限元(finite element method, FEM)耦合方法建立了寒区单桩式风机结构的冰激振动模型.采用具有粘结-破碎性能的球体离散单元描述平整海冰损伤破坏行为,采用梁单元和三角形平板壳单元构造带有抗冰锥体的单桩式风机有限元模型.采用DEM-FEM耦合方法模拟不同冰速、冰厚条件下单桩式风机与平整冰相互作用过程,并且与IEC规范和ISO标准经验公式对比验证该耦合模型计算冰载荷的准确性.对比风机塔筒顶端和基础顶端的位移和加速度响应时程,定性地给出风机结构不同部位振动响应行为差异性.风机不同部位动力特性差异原因为风机结构独特结构特点:下部为大刚度桩基和上部为高柔度塔筒,使其动力特征表现为主从式结构特性."主-从式结构"特征使得结构在复杂的冰载荷作用下,风机塔筒(子结构)和桩基(主结构)表现为不同的响应行为,风机不同部位振动周期和加速度谱两者出现差异.本文研究成果为海上风机抗冰设计和疲劳分析提供了有益参考.
[46] Ge, Haitao,Chazallon, Cyrille,Quezada, Juan Carlos ,等.Three-Dimensional Fem-Dem Coupling Simulation for Analysis of Asphalt Mixture Responses Under Rolling Tire Loads[J].SSRN,2022,SSRN
摘要：As traffic grows by leaps and bounds, deterioration of asphalt surface layers emerges as the primary cause of road network costs.A deep understanding of the tire-pavement interaction is essential for optimizing the surface design of asphalt pavements in the context of aging infrastructure and limited maintenance resources. Most of the current tire-pavement interaction studies have been conducted in the continuum mechanics framework using Finite Element Methods (FEM), which shows limitations in modeling the discontinuity nature of asphalt mixtures. Discrete Element Methods (DEM) offer a promising way to examine the mechanical properties of asphalt mixtures at the particle level, but it is inadequate for modeling deformable tire structure and capturing realistic tire contact forces on the pavement surface. In this study, a FEM-DEM coupling strategy was developed for the modeling of tire-pavement interaction by implementing a DEM model of asphalt mixtures with rolling tire loads from a FEM model. Based on simulations with realistic rolling tire load conditions, this coupling algorithm allows the investigation of particle force chain network evolution, particle displacement and velocity distributions, movements of individual particles, and particle contact force characteristics inside an asphalt mixture. This study offers an enriching expansion of both continuum and discrete mechanics methods for analyzing asphalt mixture responses under rolling tire loads, which can provide insight into pavement surface design. © 2022, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[47] Liu, Hai,Ma, Guang-Hui,Geng, Zhe .An improved FEM-DEM coupling simulation for granular-media-based thin-wall elbow tube push-bending process[J].Revista Internacional de Métodos Numéricos para Cálculo y Diseño en Ingeniería,2023,39 (2),SCIPEDIA S L
摘要：The granular-media-based push-bending process has been developed to manufacture thin-wall elbow tube with t/D <= 0.01 (the ratio of wall thickness to outer diameter) and R/D <= 1.5 (the ratio of bending radius to outer diameter). In the process, a tubular blank is filled with granular media and then pushed into a die to form an elbow shape. To investigate the process, a FEM-DEM coupling model has been developed, in which FEM is used to simulate bending deformation of tubular blank, and DEM is used to calculate contact forces between spherical particles in granular media. In this work, an improved numerical formulation is proposed in order to reach mechanical equilibrium quickly and accelerate the convergence of DEM simulation, when the new contacts are no longer created and the old contacts are no longer deleted in granular media. Using the proposed numerical formulation, the improved FEM-DEM coupling simulation for granular-media-based thin-wall elbow tube push-bending process is less time-consuming than before under the same simulation condition.
[48] 王治林,郑明明,夏敏 ,等.不同边界对花岗岩三轴试验影响的三维离散元数值研究[J].钻探工程,2023,50 (1):150-158
摘要：为了研究边界对花岗岩常规三轴离散元模拟试验的影响,使用颗粒流模拟软件(PFC3D),基于三维等效晶质模型(Grain-Based-Model)方法生成花岗岩模型,同时利用有限元-离散元(FDM-DEM)耦合建模技术,分别建立刚性、柔性膜以及有限元单元(“Shell”)3种边界下的离散元三轴试验,结果表明:相较于“Shell”边界,刚性边界会提高岩样发生应力集中现象的概率,影响岩样的破坏形态;柔性膜边界会导致岩样在三轴加载过程中所受的实际围压大于目标围压,并显著提高岩样的残余强度;而“Shell”边界下的岩样所受围压稳定,发生应力集中的概率最小。综合分析可得:在花岗岩离散元三轴模拟中“Shell”边界是合适的选择。
[49] Jie Zhang,Rusong Nie,Yongchang Tan ,等.Modeling of flexible coupling boundary combing discrete element method with finite difference method for drained/undrained triaxial test[J].Powder Technology,2023,427 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A simulation framework combining the coupling fluid method (CFM) and flexible coupling boundary method was developed to simulate drained and undrained triaxial tests. The discrete element method (DEM) model was calibrated using consolidated drained (CD) triaxial tests on saturated silt and then used to calculate the drained response of specimens with different initial porosity in both rigid and flexible boundaries. Subsequently, consolidated undrained (CU) triaxial tests were simulated and compared to the constant volume method. The bulk modulus of water was determined, and the reliability of the CFM was verified. On this basis, the DEM model was used to calculate the undrained response of the specimens with different initial porosity by simulating CU triaxial tests. The computed drained/undrained responses, including stress path, deviatoric stress, and shear-induced volumetric strain/pore water pressure, were consistent with the known behavior of silt. This study has promising potential to further enhance the understanding of granular behavior. © 2023 Elsevier B.V.
[50] 张珂,张硕,于文达 ,等.基于离散元-有限元耦合仿真的螺旋数值模拟分析[J].沈阳建筑大学学报（自然科学版）,2021,37 (4):746-752
摘要：目的研究多螺旋布料器内螺旋强制推送骨料时的受力情况,针对螺旋易损坏、易磨损的问题,给出螺旋优化意见。方法基于离散元-有限元(DEM-FEM)多物理场耦合理论建立螺旋输送物料理论模型,数值模拟分析混凝土骨料与螺旋间的相互作用力。结果通过对比螺旋转动力矩的仿真与实验结果,证明了数值模型准确性;螺旋在推送物料时,等效应力最大位置在螺旋叶片与螺旋轴焊接区域;多螺旋同时推送物料时,中间位置的螺旋所受等效应力整体高于两侧螺旋;对于单螺旋而言,螺旋叶片沿轴向方向上40~80 mm处表面受力最大,100~140 mm处受力最小,沿径向方向上外圈受力较大。结论螺旋叶片内径增大或改为梯形截面可以减少焊接处应力集中的影响;螺旋叶片更换耐磨材料或适当增加叶片外圈厚度可以提高螺旋寿命;布料器中间位置螺旋选用高强度耐磨材料可提高寿命。