[1] 武献龙,陈旭东 .砌体墙在支座不均匀沉降下的有限离散元分析[J].土木工程与绿色建筑,2023
摘要：文章采用三维GPGPU并行有限离散元(FDEM)模拟了干接缝砌体墙在支座不均匀沉降下的面内和面外行为。由于材料退化,许多砌体结构的砂浆通常会损失凝聚力,因此,干接缝假设是合理的。这些墙体结构由大量砌块组成,具有高度的非线性和不连续性,在FDEM将每个砌体单元离散为多个四节点常应变四面体单元,并在每个单元内考虑有限元公式,从而能够对接触力和结构变形进行准确预测,合理地表示砌体结构的不连续性。文章给出了简单砖墙的数值算例,并与现有文献的实验结果进行验证,证明了FDEM的适用性和可靠性,进而研究分析了宫殿墙在竖向荷载以及不均匀沉降共同作用下的结构破坏。由文章可知,有限离散元法可用于模拟由支座不均匀沉降引起的砖墙平面内和平面外的破坏行为。
[2] Yan, Chengzeng,Wang, Tie,Zheng, Yuchen ,等.Insights into the Effect of Water Content on Mudstone Fragmentation and Cutter Force during TBM Cutter Indentation via the Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2024,57 (4):2877-2912,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：In the Tunnel Boring Machines (TBMs) construction of soft rock tunnels, adverse geological conditions, such as water-rich and wet strata are often encountered. Water in strata can change the stress state and weaken the mechanical performance of rock mass, further affecting the tunneling process and rock breaking efficiency. To study the effect of water content on mudstone fragmentation characteristics and cutter force during TBM cutter indentation, the water softening effect is considered in the moisture diffusion-fracture coupling model based on the finite-discrete element method (FDEM). Then, the micro parameters (fracture energy release rate, swelling coefficient and moisture diffusion coefficient) of mudstone are calibrated by uniaxial, triaxial compression and swelling tests. Subsequently, the water content and swelling deformation evolution of mudstone samples during water migration are revealed. Finally, the coupling model is utilized to investigate the fragmentation characteristics and cutter force of mudstone samples with different water contents under various confining pressures during TBM cutter indentation. The fragmentation zone, cutter force, acoustic emission (AE), and crack number during cutter indentation are quantitatively analyzed. Results indicate that the vertical extent of fragmentation range (Ev) decreases with the increase of water content, while the horizontal extent of fragmentation zone (Eh) does not decrease obviously until the water content reaches 3%. The increase of confining pressure reduces the effect of water content on Ev, and the increase of water content also reduces the effect of confining pressure on Ev, indicating that confining pressure and water content have a mutual inhibition effect on Ev. Besides, both the peak value of normal force and the fluctuation range of tangential force for the TBM cutter decrease with the increase of the water content. The AE counts show that the failure pattern of mudstone is mainly shear failur
[3] Chengzeng Yan,Du Han,Hong Zheng ,等.A linear fracture constitutive model for the two-dimensional finite-discrete element method (FDEM) and its parameters calibration procedure[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2025,176 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The parameters calibration of the original fracture constitutive model for the joint element in the finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is very complex. To simplify the parameter calibration procedure, we firstly propose a linear fracture constitutive model for the two-dimensional finite-discrete element method (FDEM). Based on the simplified constitutive model for the joint element, the proposed calibration procedure only involves adjusting two parameters (<em>r<sub>o</sub></em> and <em>r<sub>s</sub></em>), which represent the post-peak strain to pre-peak strain ratio and have a clear physical meaning. Other rock mechanical parameters can directly take from the experimental values. Then, the correctness of the proposed fracture constitutive model is verified by a series of rock numerical tests. Finally, the calibration procedure of the input parameters for the Jinping Baishan Group marble is provided by using the linear fracture constitutive model. The proposed constitutive model can significantly simplify the parameter calibration process and improve the computational efficiency, which enables FDEM better applied to practical engineering.
[4] Haoyu Han,Xuantao Liu,Hongyuan Liu ,等.Analysis of step-path failure mechanisms in rock slopes with en-echelon joints based on FDEM simulation[J].Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory,2025,142 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, an in-house combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is implemented to simulate and analyze the entire step-path failure process in rock slopes with en-echelon joints under natural conditions. Based on the Longmenqiao Reservoir slope in Chongqing, China, numerical models of the slope with and without en-echelon joints are established, and a comparative analysis is first conducted to explore the effects of the en-echelon joints on the slope failure mode. Then, to further investigate the slope failure mechanisms due to various influencing factors on site, a series of parametric analyses is conducted following an orthogonal experimental design with six factors at three levels. Through range and variance analyses of the computation results from 18 numerical models, the sensitivities of the slope stability to slope angle, slope height, joint angle, joint length, rock bridge angle, and rock bridge length are evaluated. Furthermore, a single-variable analysis method is adopted to build 24 numerical models with a focus on the aforementioned six key influencing factors to investigate the specific impacts of each factor on the slope stability, slope failure mode, and kinetic energy variation during the slope failure process. It is found that the fracture of the slopes with the en-echelon joints emerges sequentially along the joints and rock bridges from the bottom to top during the small deformation stage and reversals in shear stress direction are observed within the rock bridges during the detachment stage. The slope stability is found to be sensitive to the following six key influencing factors in descending order: joint angle, slope angle, slope height, joint length, rock bridge angle, and rock bridge length. A negative correlation is identified between the slope stability and the slope angle, slope height as well as joint angle while no clear linear relationship exists with the other three parameters. The numerical findings not only deepen the unders
[5] Wang, Penghui,Ji, Chunning,Sun, Xiping ,等.Development and test of FDEM-FLOW-3D-A CFD-DEM model for the fluid-structure interaction of blocks under wave loads[J].Ocean Engineering,2024,303 ,PERGAMON-ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD
摘要：In this study, a new coupled Computational Fluid Dynamics-Discrete Element Method (CFD-DEM) model was developed to investigate the stability of Accropode TM blocks on a sloping breakwater under wave loads. The widely used CFD software FLOW-3D was customized by integrating it with the combined Finite-Discrete Element Method (FDEM) code, which accurately simulates the complex contact and interlocking behavior between multiple polyhedron blocks. The coupling strategy employed in this model involved the FDEM code updating the contact forces and torques at each time step, while FLOW-3D simulated the wave-structure interaction, and then calculated the position and velocity of the blocks for the next time step. Key information exchange between the two codes was facilitated through shared files. To validate the stability and accuracy of the CFD-DEM model, a series of cases were conducted. The results showed good agreement with theoretical results, demonstrating the high accuracy of the model. Furthermore, a representative case involving the interaction between waves and Accropode TM blocks on a sloping breakwater was analyzed to evaluate the capabilities of the CFD-DEM model. The time histories of block displacement, wave force, and contact force were examined. The findings revealed that blocks located within one wave height above and below the still water level experienced more disturbances compared to other blocks, which aligns with engineering practices. These results collectively demonstrate that the presented CFD-DEM model is capable of simulating the complex wave-structure interactions with a reasonable level of accuracy.
[6] 王曈,张宏,陈沛瑀 ,等.基于FDEM和结构预处理的切尾核桃球壳冲击破碎特性研究[J].农机化研究,2026,48 (7):159-167
摘要：在核桃破壳加工中,壳体尾部倒刺是导致碎仁和“露白”现象的主要原因。为此,提出破壳前切除尾部的结构预处理方法,先切除核桃尾部并破坏分心木结构,打破壳仁间的有机连接,随后实施冲击破壳。落锤冲击试验表明,该预处理能够有效降低冲击载荷对果仁的损伤,并减少“露白”风险,从而实现核仁与分心木隔膜的完整获取。为深入探究切尾核桃的冲击破碎机理,采用结合内聚力单元(Cohesive Element,CIE)的有限耦合离散单元方法(FDEM),对简化后的切尾核桃球壳模型的冲击破碎特性进行了数值模拟分析,根据核桃壳的碎裂程度可将破碎结果划分为未破碎、局部坍塌、破碎和粉碎4种典型类型。研究结果表明,在0°冲击条件下,模式间临界转变速度分别为2.5 m/s(未破碎至局部坍塌)、12 m/s(局部坍塌至破碎)和85 m/s(破碎至粉碎);此外,当冲击速度小于10 m/s时,损伤比随冲击角度增加呈线性下降,大于10 m/s时则呈指数下降,表明增大冲击角度可显著抑制破碎程度。研究结果可为新型核桃破壳机械的设计、关键参数优化和工艺调控,以及其他坚果的破碎特性研究提供理论基础。
[7] Yiming Lei,Quansheng Liu,Jiangtao Wen ,等.An efficient Kriging-based calibration framework for FDEM[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2024,296 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is a powerful numerical tool to simulate the transition of materials from continuous deformation to discontinuous fracturing and fragmentation. Calibrating parameters using laboratory data is crucial for applying FDEM to engineering-scale analysis. Considering the high computational costs in existing calibration schemes, this study proposes an effective FDEM calibration framework employing the Kriging surrogate model rooted in Uniaxial Compressive Strength (UCS) and Brazilian Tensile Strength (BTS) tests. The sensitivity analysis is first conducted on mesh size, loading rate, and numerical parameters to find a suitable set that balances computational efficiency and accuracy. Subsequently, an efficient mapping relationship between input fracture parameters and simulated strengths is established based on the Kriging surrogate model, replacing the expensive FDEM program for forward calculations. With the fracture parameters treated as unknown variables and experimental strengths available, the objective function is formulated and then solved to estimate fracture parameters. The effectiveness of the proposed method is validated through a numerical example. Compared to the conventional methods, the proposed approach requires fewer simulations of UCS and BTS, which highlights a significant computational efficiency advantage. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[8] Wang, Jingzhou,Ma, Gang,Zhao, Tingting ,等.FDEM simulation for granular materials based on exact scaling and coarse granulation[J].岩土工程学报,2024,46 (11):2371-2379,Chinese Society of Civil Engineering
摘要：The particle materials are characterized by discontinuity and dispersion, so they face great computational pressure in numerical simulation. The exact scaling criterion and coarse-grained method are introduced into the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) to provide a solution for accelerating the numerical simulation of granular materials based on the FDEM. Based on the theories of exact scaling and coarse granulation, the exact scaling criteria for the FDEM are derived. On this basis, the numerical triaxial shear tests for equal diameter particle system and binary particle system are carried out respectively. The test results show that without the introduction of the exact scaling criteria, the mechanical response characteristics of the coarse-grained model will change, resulting in distortion, and the parameters of the coarse-grained model need to be corrected. After the introduction of the exact scaling criteria, the mechanical response characteristics of the coarse-grained model are corrected. The test results demonstrate the effectiveness of introducing the exact scaling criteria and coarse granulation method into the FDEM. It can greatly improve the computational efficiency of numerical simulation of granular materials using the FDEM under the similar conditions to the original particle system. Based on the numerical test results, the macroscopic stress deformation and mesoscopic contact force are correlated, and the micromechanical mechanism of the exact scaling and coarse-grained methods is revealed. © 2024 Chinese Society of Civil Engineering. All rights reserved.
[9] 冼树兴,叶阳,李长冬 ,等.干湿循环作用下软硬相间地层滑坡-抗滑桩体系劣化特性有限-离散元法(FDEM)数值模拟[J].地质科技通报,2025,44 (6):2-16
摘要：三峡库区秭归盆地广泛分布以软硬相间地层为主的易滑地层,在长期的库水浸泡冲刷、降雨等作用下,地层岩土体发生劣化损伤,成为降低滑坡稳定和影响工程安全的重要内因。以软硬相间地层岩土体为研究对象,采用有限-离散元法(finite discrete element method,简称FDEM)对不同干湿循环作用下软硬相间地层中硬岩和软岩的力学参数进行了标定,然后通过改进的泰森多边形程序进行了网格重划分,实现了零厚度黏聚力单元的嵌入功能,提出并建立了软硬相间地层滑坡-抗滑桩体系FDE.M数值计算模型,最后对不同干湿循环作用下滑坡裂纹的形成过程和抗滑桩的嵌固机理进行了研究。研究结果表明:(1)滑坡模拟裂纹数量随着干湿循环次数的增加而增多,裂纹宽度也逐渐增大,并与马家沟滑坡现场裂缝进行了对比,模拟结果与现场基本一致;(2)滑坡-抗滑桩体系的模拟裂纹呈现2种演化模式,一是裂纹从桩顶侧岩土体沿着桩身向下扩展,二是裂纹从抗滑桩周围逐渐向滑体内部延伸,与横向裂纹和竖向裂纹连通,最终形成大型的贯通裂纹;(3)当干湿循环次数增加时,抗滑桩桩身水平位移、弯矩和剪力也随之增加;(4)抗滑桩嵌固段的软硬相间地层基岩内的裂纹具有局部化发育特征,而且随干湿循环次数的增加,区域内的应力逐渐减小,位移和应变则逐渐增大,相应的裂纹也愈发密集。研究成果可为不同干湿循环作用下软硬相间地层滑坡防治提供技术支撑。
[10] 程树范 .高刚度地基上无筋扩展基础破坏的FDEM模拟[J].土工基础,2025,39 (5):743-749
摘要：扩展基础的破坏模式与自身构造、地基的力学性能等密切相关,在岩石等高刚度地基上,扩展基础破坏模式与土体上存在较大差异。以承受竖向荷载的混凝土无筋扩展基础为对象,采用二维有限离散元方法(2D-FDEM)对其破坏过程进行了模拟,研究了基础高度及地基刚度对其承载力及破坏模式的影响。研究表明:(1)竖向荷载作用下,无筋扩展基础的破坏以冲切模式为主,且随着基础高度的增加,破坏面与竖直方向的夹角有所减小并趋于稳定,剪切破坏特征更加明显;(2)高刚度地基上扩展基础的基底压力呈抛物线形或倒钟形分布,随着地基刚度的增加,基底反力不均匀性增加;(3)通过与传统有限元方法(FEM)的对比,FDEM模型可以模拟破坏面的形成过程,当采用非结构化网格时模拟得到的冲切锥体形态及破坏面位置更加准确。
[11] Yutaro Maeda,Sho Ogata,Daisuke Fukuda ,等.Development of a GPGPU-parallelized FDEM based on extrinsic cohesive zone model with master-slave algorithm[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,166 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper proposes a novel general-purpose graphic-processing-units (GPGPU) parallel computing approach to an extrinsic cohesive zone model (ECZM) - based combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) for simulating rock fracturing. The proposed GPGPU-parallelized ECZM-FDEM incorporates a master–slave algorithm as an alternative to the complex adaptive remeshing process, which is usually used in ECZM but has prevented it from being parallelized using GPGPU. Numerical experiments of the Brazilian test and uniaxial compression test of rocks are conducted to compare the proposed ECZM-FDEM with a GPGPU-parallelized FDEM using the intrinsic cohesive zone model (ICZM-FDEM). Results show that the proposed method can not only overcome the accuracy degradation of calculated stresses and deformations that is inevitable in ICZM-FDEM but also reasonably simulate rock fracturing. Moreover, the proposed GPGPU-parallelized ECZM-FDEM achieves a maximum relative speed-up of 13 times over GPGPU-parallelized ICZM-FDEM due to efficient contact calculations and larger stable time steps. Thus, the proposed ECZM-FDEM is more physically sound and more computationally efficient compared with ICZM-FDEM, which may contribute to the further developments of FDEM. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[12] Yiming Lei,Xuhui Yang,Quansheng Liu ,等.An enhanced polar-based GPGPU-parallelized contact detection algorithm for 3D FDEM and its application to cracking analysis of shield tunnel segmental linings[J].Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology,2024,148 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study introduces the three-dimensional combined finite-discrete element method (3D FDEM) to perform cracking analysis of segmental linings under extreme conditions. Considering the complex contact interactions of segments, this study first proposes a polar-based GPGPU-parallelized contact detection algorithm to handle memory issues confronted by existing FDEM algorithms. Initially, a spatial decomposition approach based on the polar coordinate system is implemented during the broad search phase. Each tetrahedral element is positioned within suitable search cells according to the axis-aligned bounding box. Subsequently, element pairs within each search cell are iteratively traversed, and potential contact pairs are identified using the judge cell criteria. After the broad search, a narrow search phase is executed to determine all real contacts. Following the above implementation, a load-structure model encompassing soil spring and external pressure calculations is then proposed. Based on the shape functions and coordinate transformation, the formulations of soil springs and external loads are derived and parallelized in the 3D FDEM framework. Three numerical tests are presented to validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. Simulation results confirm the suitability of the proposed method for cracking analysis of segmental linings. Compared to the existing methods, it reduces GPU memory usage by 56 ∼ 76 % without extending time, which enhances the computational scale of 3D FDEM simulations. Furthermore, the proposed method is applied to two engineering scenarios, i.e., straight and curved segmental linings, both considering the absence and presence of contact defects between segments. The results show that contact defects can significantly reduce the resistance of the structural system comprising bolts and concrete segments for straight and curved scenarios. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[13] Di Wu,Haibo Li,Daisuke Fukuda ,等.Development of a finite-discrete element method with finite-strain elasto-plasticity and cohesive zone models for simulating the dynamic fracture of rocks[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2023,156 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper implements a finite-strain-based Mohr-Coulomb (MC) elasto-plastic model into the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) with the intrinsic cohesive zone model (ICZM). The formulation of elasto-plastic continuum elements based on the concept of unrotated configuration as the frame of reference is firstly incorporated into an in-house FDEM code, which is parallelized by general-purpose graphic processing units. The developed FDEM code can not only handle the finite elasto-plastic deformation, the large displacement, and the rotation of continuum elements but also simultaneously model the explicit rock fracturing. The split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB)-based dynamic tests, single-hole blasting, and model blasting experiments reported in the literature are then modeled using the FDEM with and without the MC model to elucidate the effects of the incorporation of the MC model on the dynamic rock fracturing simulation results. It is elucidated that the conventional FDEM tends to show more fractures and undesirable overestimations of local stresses and particle velocities while the proposed FDEM can reasonably avoid these issues in all the numerical simulations conducted in this study. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[14] 田甜,张锴,张育维 ,等.基于有限离散元的硅薄膜电极断裂行为研究[J].中国科学：技术科学,2025,55 (4):753-764,Science Press
摘要：由于硅的材料特性,锂离子电池中的硅薄膜电极在嵌锂和脱锂过程中会经历显著的体积膨胀,导致电极内部出现裂纹扩展、闭合以及层间脱黏现象.本文使用有限离散元法(FDEM)建立硅薄膜的力-电化学模型,基于显式数值积分方法模拟锂离子电池中硅负极薄膜在复杂应力环境下的断裂行为,同时研究锂离子在嵌入与脱嵌过程中引起的浓度动态变化.该模型深入模拟了锂离子电池在恒流充放电循环过程中硅薄膜的裂纹产生与扩展机制,并指出电极与基底之间的脱层行为最早在脱锂阶段与裂纹的扩展过程同步发生.在此基础上,本文进一步探讨了硅薄膜表面粗糙度作为影响电极裂纹成核的关键因素,通过对比不同粗糙度的硅薄膜在恒流充放电条件下的模拟结果,发现表面粗糙度显著影响了起裂时间、累计裂纹长度和最大张开度等关键参数.本文为更深入地理解硅负极薄膜在循环过程中的失效机制、优化电池设计和提升电池性能提供有力的理论支持.
[15] 张雅楠,陈旭东 .玻璃结构冲击下碎片扩散的有限离散元验证与分析[J].苏州科技大学学报（工程技术版）,2025,38 (3):43-50
摘要：由于玻璃具有良好的透光性和独特的审美效果,在土建领域应用广泛。夹层玻璃在冲击下易开裂,形成大量碎片并四处飞溅,进而对用户的安全构成威胁。因此,对夹层玻璃结构在冲击下碎片扩散的研究是一个亟待解决的问题。本文采用有限离散元法(FDEM)开展夹层玻璃结构在冲击下碎片扩散的验证与分析。在FDEM模型中,将夹层玻璃离散为嵌入有限元格式的可变形单元,以精确地计算单元的变形、运动及相互作用。参数包括碎片下落距离、冲击速度、冲击角度和冲击体性质等。结果表明:冲击体速度越大,碎片越集中;玻璃梁的倾斜对冲击体有阻止作用;软冲击危害更大。通过参数分析,建立夹层玻璃在冲击作用下的碎片扩散规律。
[16] Sharafisafa, Mansour,Aliabadian, Zeinab,Sato, Akira ,等.Coupled Thermo-hydro-mechanical Simulation of Hydraulic Fracturing in Deep Reservoirs Using Finite-Discrete Element Method[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2023,56 (7):5039-5075,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：Hydraulic fracturing (HF) is one of the most effective stimulation techniques to enhance reservoir permeability. The efficiency of an HF fluid injection depends on the pre-existing discontinuities or sources of heterogeneities and these features need to be considered in a HF operation treatment. Moreover, deep reservoirs are usually located in hot dry rocks (HDR). Hence, thermal conduction through the rock and fluid and advection and convective heat transfer in the fluid can affect the fluid-rock interaction. This study focuses on HF development in deep reservoirs under a high-temperature field. Two separate scenarios are considered: a reservoir containing discrete fracture networks (DFN) and another considering blocks in a matrix as conglomerate reservoirs (there is no relation between the scenarios considered). The study discusses each reservoir separately and simulates their thermo-hydro-mechanical (THM) behaviour using the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). First, the capabilities of the FDEM are verified against the existing analytical solutions, and then the FDEM is employed to model HF development. The effects of controlling factors, including flow rate, fluid kinematic viscosity and DFN aperture for jointed reservoirs and flow rate, fluid kinematic viscosity and block strength in conglomerate ones, are studied. The results show that the high fracture density DFNs strongly affect the HF propagation pattern and fluid pressure rise. Moreover, the DFN's aperture significantly alters the HF treatment behaviour. The controlling factors are observed to influence the HF pattern strongly, and a successful HF treatment requires careful consideration of all the factors. In the conglomerate reservoirs, the strength of the blocks strongly dominates the HF mechanism, in which soft blocks break and allow for uniform fluid pressure distribution and longer HFs, while hard blocks stop fluid from flowing over longer distances accumulating high fluid pressure aroun
[17] Yuexiang Lin,Jianjun Ma,Zhengshou Lai ,等.A FDEM approach to study mechanical and fracturing responses of geo-materials with high inclusion contents using a novel reconstruction strategy[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2023,282 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, a detailed FDEM approach to simulate the mechanical and fracturing responses of heterogeneous geomaterials with irregular inclusions is systematically developed. The inclusion surface morphology is first obtained through 3D scanning techniques. A computational geometry method, the curvature-weighted sphere Voronoi method (CWSVM), is adopted to control the mesh quantity and quality and ensure the efficiency and accuracy of the FDEM numerical model. A signed-distance-field-based discrete element method (SDF-DEM) is employed to approximate the natural distribution and orientation of inclusions. Heterogeneous geomaterials with large inclusion contents (such as 60% and 70%) are generated effectively and efficiently through this approach. Next, to model the fracturing process, a finite discrete element method (FDEM) model is developed by integrating cohesive elements into the mesh in a fast and efficient manner. In addition, a combined constitutive model is proposed to consider the shear-hardening behaviour of the cohesive elements. The proposed numerical approach is verified through comparison with experimental results, including the shape of inclusions and mechanical responses of geomaterials. The results demonstrate that both satisfactory precision and low calculation costs can be achieved using the proposed algorithm. The consequent simulation performance is verified through comparisons of observations and numerical results with experimental results for failure patterns and mechanical behaviours. In addition, the effects of the strength of the interfaces between the inclusions and matrix on the mechanical and fracturing characteristics of inclusion-containing geomaterials are analysed quantitatively. The mechanical strength decreases rather than increases with increasing content of inclusions when the interface strength is less than the matrix strength. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[18] Mansour Sharafisafa,Akira Sato,Zeinab Aliabadian .Hydraulic fracture development in conglomerate reservoirs simulated using combined finite-discrete element method[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2023,279 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Hydraulic fracturing is known to be the most effective stimulation to enhance fractured reservoir permeability by creating hydraulic fractures (HFs). The efficiency of a HF fluid injection largely depends on the pre-existing discontinuities or sources of heterogeneities. These features need to be considered in a HF operation design. Amongst these features, conglomerate reservoirs containing blocks in a matrix are largely ignored despite their presence in deep rocks. This study focuses on the HF development in such grounds and simulates their hydro-mechanical behaviour by using the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM), which is fully capable of modelling HF propagation in heterogeneous rocks. First, the capabilities of the FDEM are verified against existing analytical solutions and experimental fluid injection and then employed to model HF development. In the conglomerate models, three blocks with low to high strength properties are simulated to assess the effect of block strength on the HF development pattern. Various controlling parameters, including in-situ stresses, flow rate, fluid kinematic viscosity, directional HF (DHF), properties of the interface between the blocks and matrix, and their effects on the HF path are investigated. The results show a significant influence of blocks in a matrix on the HF pattern. The HF interaction with the blocks of different shapes and dimensions is shown to be complex, and six interaction types for the blocks are identified based on the close observation of the results. It is also found that to achieve a successful HF injection in such grounds, a low flow rate with a low viscous fluid can be a good strategy. Also, it is shown that the blocks' strength significantly affects the type of failure (tensile or shear) and the breakdown pressure. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[19] 刘军,邓鹏海 .基于FDEM数值模拟的软岩隧洞大变形预测[J].西北水电,2023
摘要：软岩隧洞收敛变形量预测对隧洞施工方法、设备选型和支护设计具有重要意义。采用有限元-离散元耦合数值模拟方法(FDEM)对软岩隧洞掘进过程开展了模拟研究,并调研了地应力量值对隧洞收敛变形量的影响。结果表明:隧洞大变形机理为开挖卸荷引起径向应力降低、切向应力升高,升高的切向应力造成围岩发生共轭剪切破坏,并持续向深处完整围岩扩展,深部破裂块体对浅部碎裂岩块的接触挤压产生宏观空隙,造成体积增大,发生具有碎胀效应的挤压大变形;随着围岩强度应力比的降低,围岩收敛变形量呈指数函数增大,相关系数高达0.996,为软岩隧洞收敛变形量预测提供了经验公式。
[20] Penghai Deng,Quansheng Liu,Haifeng Lu .FDEM numerical study on the mechanical characteristics and failure behavior of heterogeneous rock based on the Weibull distribution of mechanical parameters[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2023,154 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Rock materials are typically heterogeneous. Traditional digital image processing (DIP) technology and the grain-based model (GBM) method are difficult to apply to engineering-scale problem studies, such as tunnel excavation. Based on the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM), a random parameter assignment method is proposed to simulate the mechanical properties and failure behavior of heterogeneous rock. The elastic moduli of triangular elements, as well as the strength parameters of quadrilateral joint elements, assigned by this method obey a Weibull distribution. The simulation results of uniaxial compression, triaxial compression and Brazilian disc show that with the increase in the heterogeneity m value, the uniaxial compressive strength, elastic modulus, triaxial compressive strength, equivalent cohesion, equivalent internal friction angle and tensile strength all increase exponentially and approach those of the homogeneous rock sample. In addition, the heterogeneous rock samples mainly shear fail along their corresponding theoretical failure angle under uniaxial and triaxial compression. The simulation results of tunnel excavation indicate that for heterogeneous rock with different m values, the overall fracture morphology of the surrounding rock remains unchanged, and X-shaped conjugate shear failures mainly occur followed by a small amount of tensile failures, which are similar to the homogeneous surrounding rock. However, with the increase in the m value, the failure degree and the maximum fracture propagation range of the surrounding rock decrease exponentially. Moreover, the simulation results of uniaxial compression and tunnel excavation with different element sizes suggest that the random parameter assignment method proposed in this paper is reliable. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
[21] Liu, He,Shao, Zuliang,Lin, Qibin ,等.Resultant Normal Contact Force-Based Contact Friction Model for the Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method and Its Validation[J].Mathematics,2023,11 (19),MDPI
摘要：In the conventional FDEM (Combined Finite and Discrete Element Method), each contact pair might have multiple contact points where friction forces are applied, leading to non-unique friction force assignments and potentially introducing computational errors. This study introduces a new contact friction algorithm for FDEM based on the resultant normal contact force. This method necessitates determining the friction force at a unique equivalent contact point, thereby significantly simplifying the computational flow and reducing memory usage. A series of numerical tests are performed to validate the effectiveness of the proposed contact model. Using collision and block sliding tests, the proposed contact friction model is verified to be able to accurately capture the frictional effect between discrete bodies and circumvent the problematic kinetic energy dissipation issue associated with the original contact friction algorithm. For the Brazilian splitting and uniaxial compression tests, the simulated results closely align with those generated using the original contact friction algorithm and match the experimental measurements well, demonstrating the applicability of the proposed algorithm in fracturing analysis. Furthermore, by using the proposed contact friction algorithm, a computational efficiency enhancement of 8% in contact force evaluation can be achieved.
[22] Cai, Weibing,Gao, Ke,Wu, Shan ,等.Moment Tensor-Based Approach for Acoustic Emission Simulation in Brittle Rocks Using Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method (FDEM)[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2023,56 (6):3903-3925,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：Acoustic emission (AE), a phenomenon of elastic waves released by localized fracture generation, has been extensively utilized as an effective tool for monitoring rock failure processes in many rock mechanics related fields. Within the framework of the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM), we develop a new AE simulation technique based on moment tensor theory considering the clustering effect of microcracks. The technique first integrates forces around the AE source to obtain the moment tensor, and then estimates the AE magnitude associated with the acquired moment tensor. In addition to quantifying the seismic source mechanisms of the modeled AE events, the technique can also distinguish fracture types based on moment tensor decomposition approaches when an AE event contains multiple microcracks. The effectiveness of the newly developed approach for capturing the distribution of AE event magnitude is firstly verified by establishing a heterogeneous rock model under uniaxial compressive load. Then, we perform four typical tests to validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach for distinguishing the source mechanism of microcracks, and further revise the traditional criterion to better accommodate the discrimination of the full spectrum of AE source types. Furthermore, the fractures generated in the heterogeneous model demonstrate the capability of the moment tensor decomposition approach in distinguishing macro-fracture types on laboratory scales. As an exemplar application, we also establish a numerical model to analyze the failure mechanism in a bridge region of two pre-existing flaws in a rock specimen through laboratory-scale uniaxial compression tests. The work may provide a new means to analyze fracturing and failure in rocks and the associated seismic behaviors.
[23] Shirui Zhang,Shili Qiu,Quan Jiang ,等.Modeling damage evolution in granite under temperature using a thermo-mechanical grain-based FDEM model[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,169 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Temperature has a significant impact on the microscopic damage and macroscopic mechanical properties of brittle heterogeneous rocks. The grain-based model and grain-growth method were used to reconstruct Beishan granite (BsG) based on the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). In addition, a uniaxial loading simulation method for a preheated model was proposed to study the effect of temperature on the thermal cracking and mechanical behavior of BsG. This study found that the crack inclination angle and spatial distribution characteristics of samples have significant temperature dependence. The inter-grain crack aperture is closely related to the nonlinear thermal expansion coefficient and thermal mismatch of minerals. The amount of thermal energy absorbed by mineral crystals is mainly related to the specific heat capacity of the mineral, which is ultimately converted into strain energy and kinetic energy. The transfer of thermal energy causes the thermal vibration effect. The higher the temperature is, the larger the tensile stress and compressive stress. The location of the maximum tensile stress is generally at grain boundaries. As the temperature increases, the peak strength and elastic modulus of BsG decrease, and the ductility increases. The cracks induced by thermal stress become the main defect location of the sample, and the phenomenon of splitting failure appears macroscopically. The inclination angle of shear cracks does not change much with temperature, and the orientation distribution of the tension cracks becomes more isotropic as the temperature increases. The research results have guiding significance for stability evaluation in energy geotechnical engineering. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[24] Gyeong-Gyu Kim,Chan-Hwi Shin,Gyeong-Jo Min ,等.Development of a 3D FDEM-Based Static-Dynamic Sequential Damage Analysis Method for Optimal Mechanical Demolition Processes for Large-Scale Aging Structures[J].Explosives and Blasting,2024,42 (3):9-22,Korean Society of Explosives and Blasting Engineering
摘要：As buildings constructed in the 1980s during a period of rapid urbanization and economic growth have aged, the demand for demolition, especially of reinforced concrete structures, has increased. In large-scale structures such as industrial buildings, a mixed approach utilizing both mechanical demolition and explosive demolition methods is being employed. As the demand for demolition rises, so do safety concerns, making structural stability during demolition a crucial issue. In this study, drones and LiDAR were used to collect actual structural data, which was then used to build a simulation model. The analysis method employed was a combination of the Finite Element Method (FEM) and the Discrete Element Method (DEM), known as the Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method (FDEM), which was used to perform dynamic structural analysis during various demolition phases. The results were compared and analyzed with the commercial software ELS to assess its applicability.
[25] Ma, Junqiang,Wang, Hongsheng,Li, Xuehua ,等.FDEM Simulation and Application Study of Hydraulic Fracturing in Coal-Measure Hard Roof Containing Weak Interlayer[J].Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering,2026,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：A coupled finite-discrete element method (FDEM) was employed to develop a numerical model simulating hydraulic fracturing in coal-measure hard roof strata containing weak interlayers. This research systematically analyzes how weak interlayers influence hydraulic fracture propagation patterns and micro-fracture initiation mechanisms, elucidating their role in controlling fracture trajectory evolution. The findings demonstrate that hydraulic fractures exhibit pronounced vertical asymmetry upon encountering weak interlayers. Specifically, as the Hh/Hs ratio (hard layer thickness to weak layer thickness) increases, fractures display a higher propensity to penetrate the interlayer and extend vertically. In contrast, lower Hh/Hs values promote the formation of intricate fracture networks within the weak interlayer, accompanied by interfacial delamination. Field validation at the 9401-working face of Hengsheng Coal Mine confirms that the proposed segmented hydraulic fracturing technique successfully induces pre-fracturing in hard roof strata, yielding favorable engineering outcomes.
[26] Pengju Wang,Gang Wang,Fulai Zhang ,等.A grain-based FDEM with finite-width microcracks for modeling granite deformation and strength[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2026,193 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The microstructure of crystalline rock comprises mineral aggregates and randomly distributed microcracks that strongly govern macroscopic mechanical behavior. However, existing numerical approaches struggle to simultaneously capture finite-width microcrack closure, mineralogical heterogeneity, and realistic compressive-to-tensile strength ratios. This study develops a three-dimensional heterogeneous rock model within a finite–discrete element method (FDEM) framework that explicitly represents the polycrystalline mineral structure and embeds microcracks with prescribed intensity and finite aperture. Systematic uniaxial compression simulations on granite show that increasing microcrack width and intensity increases both crack-closure strain and crack-initiation strain, while decreasing crack-closure stress and crack-initiation stress. The crack-closure stage becomes more pronounced with increasing microcrack intensity and width, but via distinct mechanisms: higher intensity lowers the initial tangent modulus, whereas greater width extends the crack-closure strain range. Increasing microcrack intensity and width reduces elastic modulus and uniaxial compressive strength, with intensity exerting the stronger influence. As intensity increases, the failure mode transitions from localized shear fracture to diffuse fragmentation. Based on these parametric analyses, we establish an efficient calibration procedure for FDEM micromechanical parameters that incorporates microcrack characteristics. The calibrated model shows excellent agreement with laboratory measurements (relative errors &lt; 5%), reproducing the nonlinear compaction stage and granite’s high compressive-to-tensile strength ratio. Applications to thermo–mechanical and hydro–mechanical coupling demonstrate that the model captures temperature-induced strength degradation and stress-controlled hydraulic fracture propagation in microcracked granite. This work provides a physically consistent framework for modeling th
[27] Mohsen Rajab Doost Khoshdel,Ali Fakhimi .Higher-order FDEM modeling and size effect law for specific energy estimation in free rock cutting using a chisel pick[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2026,332 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A mechanistic understanding of rock chipping is critical for enhancing drilling efficiency and minimizing equipment wear. This study develops a higher-order finite-discrete element model with integrated elastic–plastic-fracture-erosion behavior to investigate chip formation across varying depths of cut. The numerical simulations identified tensile fracture as the dominant failure mode initiating chipping. A modified size effect law (SEL) is proposed to capture depth-dependent behavior. Beyond mere trend fitting, the proposed SEL enables slope-based identification of regime boundaries – ductile to fragmentation and fragmentation to brittle – via log–log analysis of specific energy versus depth. This framework offers an alternative to threshold-based methods and demonstrates improved predictive performance over Bažant’s SEL, with higher adjusted R<sup>2</sup> and agreement with published data. By synthesizing the simulation results, the modified SEL framework, and the experimental data from literature, this study advances the understanding of fracture evolution and regime transitions in rock cutting.
[28] Sun, Lei,Tang, Xuhai,Abdelaziz, Aly ,等.Stability analysis of reservoir slopes under fluctuating water levels using the combined finite-discrete element method[J].Acta Geotechnica,2023,18 (10):5403-5426,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：Fluctuating water levels are responsible for many reservoir slope failures. This work develops a novel slope analysis model (Y-slopeW) to evaluate the reservoir slope stability under water-rock coupling effect, based on the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). The transient fluid fields under water level fluctuations are first calculated, and then slope stability under water-rock interaction is evaluated in terms of the safety factor using the strength reduction method. Several benchmark tests are proposed to validate the present model. Stability analysis of an ideal slope under reservoir water level fluctuation is analyzed, where the effect of reservoir fluctuation rate and rock permeability coefficient on slope stability are discussed in detail. A practical slope case (Majiagou slope) in the Three Gorges Reservoir area is studied. Results show that the fluctuating reservoir water level plays an important role in slope stability, and a rapid drawdown is the most unfavorable condition to the slope stability. The work detailed herein proposes an efficient tool to better understand the failure mechanism and stability evolution for slopes under water level fluctuation.
[29] 孙皓 .边坡在地震下破坏的有限离散元分析[J].土木工程与绿色建筑,2024
摘要：文章针对边坡在地震下的破坏形态,构建了四川汶川王家坡边坡模型,采用有限离散元法(简称“FDEM”),对地震作用下边坡的动力响应进行数值模拟。为了验证所采用方法的准确性,将模拟结果与已有文献中的实验数据进行对比,结果表明,FDEM的模拟结果具有较高的可靠性。文章的研究成果对于深入了解边坡在地震作用下的动力响应及其破坏机制具有重要意义。未来研究可进一步探讨其它因素对边坡破坏程度的影响,为滑坡灾害防护工程提供更多的理论支持。
[30] Wenyu Fu,Qinglin Deng,Zhaolong Ge ,等.Numerical Investigation of Tree-Type Hydraulic Fracturing for Balanced Permeability Enhancement of Heterogenous Coal Seams Based on the Finite-Discrete Element Method Model[J].ACS Omega,2024,9 (20):22090-22101,American Chemical Society
摘要：Tree-type hydraulic fracturing (TTHF) is a new technology that can enhance the permeability of coal seams in a balanced manner and increase the coalbed methane production rate. However, the heterogeneity of coal seams is a major challenge in achieving balanced permeability enhancement by TTHF. Traditional methods based on digital image processing are difficult to apply in practice. To address these challenges, we proposed a 2D numerical model of coal seams based on the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). The elastic modulus of the coal seams obeys a Weibull distribution, and the coal heterogeneity was quantified by an indexm. The effects on the fracture initiation pressure, the fracturing influence range, and displacements of TTHF were analyzed from four aspects, including the homogeneity index of coal, the arrangement angle of branch boreholes, the horizontal stress difference, and the injection rate of the fracturing fluid. The results show that TTHF has a significant effect on the balanced permeability enhancement in coal reservoirs, particularly with strong heterogeneity, and the best permeability enhancement for TTHF is achieved when the branch boreholes are arranged at 45°. The branch boreholes are prefabricated in advance to create a pressure relief area around the injection point, and the hydraulic fracture propagation is affected by the horizontal stress difference only when the fracturing influence range exceeds this area. When the horizontal stress difference increases from 0 to 4 MPa, its fracture initiation pressure increases from 8.93 to 10.86 MPa, with an increase of 21.61%. In addition, the initial stage of fluid injection was found to be crucial for achieving balanced permeability enhancement in TTHF, and a higher injection rate can expand the fracturing influence range. The numerical model has profound implications for the field application of TTHF technology.
[31] Yutaro Maeda,Sho Ogata,Daisuke Fukuda ,等.Modeling of hydraulic fracturing process in crystalline rock reflecting actual mineral distribution using FDEM based on extrinsic cohesive zone model[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2026,192 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A grain-based model (GBM) replicating the exact mineral distribution of the experimental specimen was constructed, and hydraulic fracturing simulations were conducted using the finite–discrete element method (FDEM), enabling direct comparison with laboratory observations. To leverage FDEM’s ability to represent fracture surfaces explicitly, the GBM incorporated the mineral boundary geometries directly into the mesh. An extrinsic cohesive zone model (ECZM) was adopted to improve stress representation, and verification demonstrated that ECZM avoided the artificial stress oscillations characteristic of the Intrinsic CZM (ICZM). Simulations of Brazilian tensile strength tests and hydraulic fracturing tests exhibited both intergranular and transgranular cracking, producing tortuous fracture paths, and the resulting fracture metrics agreed with experiments. The analyses further revealed that fracture propagation pathways are controlled by the interplay between the stress concentration at the fracture tip and the local mineral strength. This framework provides a robust tool for investigating fracture processes in heterogeneous crystalline rock.
[32] Javad Yahaghi,Hongyuan Liu,Andrew Chan ,等.Development of a three-dimensional grain-based combined finite-discrete element method to model the failure process of fine-grained sandstones[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2023,153 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper introduces a novel three-dimensional grain-based hybrid finite-discrete element method parallelized based on general-purpose graphic processing units (GPGPUs) and applies it to investigate the failure process of sedimentary fine-grained sandstones. The grain-based method considers the actual microstructures of rocks with Voronoi or grain-growth tessellations to model their failures, including transgranular, intergranular and intragranular crack propagations. The novel semi-adaptive contact activation approach (semi-ACAA) proposed by the authors and the efficient tetrahedron-to-point (TtoP) contact interaction algorithm developed by HOSS are implemented to speed up grain-based modelling in addition to GPGPU parallelization. Semi-ACAA and TtoP are approximately 2–20 times and 1.5 times faster than the brute-force contact activation approach and tetrahedron-to-triangle contact interaction algorithm, respectively, which are prevalent in the FDEM community. The grain-based modelling elucidates that most intragranular cracks are observed in the medium- and high-strength grains of the sandstones, while most intergranular cracks occur at the grain boundaries between low- and high-strength grains. The transgranular cracks do not discriminate any grains on their propagating paths but propagate and coalesce with intragranular and intergranular cracks, which results in the final failure of the sandstones. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
[33] Shirui Zhang,Shili Qiu,Quan Jiang ,等.Effect of fully-grouted bolts on the failure behaviors of mine pillars: Insights from block-based FDEM modeling[J].Construction and Building Materials,2024,419 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, the Voronoi-based breakable block model (VBBM) based on the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is used to investigate the failure mechanism of mine pillars and the rock-rockbolt interactions. The mechanical parameters of grout-rock and grout-bolt interfaces of a fully-grouted bolt are calibrated via numerical pull-out tests. Then, uniaxial compression tests are carried out on the reinforced pillars. The kinetic energy release rate (KERR) and crack aperture (CA) are used to evaluate the reinforcement effect. The results revealed that the VBBM can effectively characterize the damage failure mechanisms of spalling on the pillar surface and conjugate shear failure in the core zone of the pillar and reproduce the pre-peak nonlinear deformation and post-peak pseudo-ductile behaviors. The passive confining pressure generated by rockbolts is activated only when the rock mass produces sufficient deformation, and the constraints generated by different numbers of rockbolts can only affect the post-peak behavior of the pillar. There is a gradient feature in the internal deformation of the pillar from the shallow surface to the core. If the rockbolt density meets the strain demand, then rockbolts can delay the inward expansion of cracks by generating local constraints and can effectively fix the spalling rock blocks. With increasing support pressure, the CA and KERR exhibit a decreasing trend and strong power-exponential relationships with support pressure, indicating that there is a transition interval of support pressure and an optimal value for setting the rockbolt density. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[34] Di Wu,Daisuke Fukuda,Gyeongjo Min ,等.Development of a GPGPU-parallelized 3-D FDEM with a novel and simple implementation of extrinsic cohesive zone model[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,174 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper proposes a novel and simple master–slave (MS) algorithm to realize the parallelization of the extrinsic cohesive zone model (ECZM) in the 3-dimensional (3-D) combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) based on the general-purpose graphics processing unit (GPGPU) for simulating dynamic rock fracture. The newly proposed algorithm is superior than the complex adaptive re-meshing algorithm, which has been applied in literature to implement ECZM but has difficulties if not impossible in being parallelized for running on GPGPU. Verifications and validations of the developed 3-D ECZM-based FDEM are then carried out through the simulations of the dynamic tensile and compression strength tests of rocks using the split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) system and the rock blasting tests, which are compared against the experimental observations. It is concluded that the developed 3-D ECZM-based FDEM has the capability of simulating stress wave propagations more smoothly and fracture patterns more consistent with the experimental observations, which may promote further applications of 3-D FDEM to model dynamic rock fracturing. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[35] Liu, Ping,Xie, Xianqi,Liu, Quansheng ,等.Influence of the oval hole on rock mechanical mechanism under uniaxial and biaxial compression: insights from the combined finite-discrete element method[J].European Journal of Environmental and Civil Engineering,2023,27 (11):3324-3342,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：To investigate the effects of the oval hole on the strength and the failure mechanisms of rock materials, a series of uniaxial and biaxial compression numerical simulations were carried out using the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). Based on the numerical simulation results, the effects of dip angle (beta), major-minor ratio (omega) and position of the oval hole on rock strength characteristics crack initiation and development process and final failure modes were analysed in detail. The numerical simulation results indicate that: (1) Under uniaxial compression, the ultimate failure modes of rock containing oval holes can be mainly classified into single inclined plane shear failure, X-shaped tensile-shear composite failure and Y-shaped tensile-shear composite failure. Under biaxial compression, the ultimate failure mode is single-inclined plane shear failure dominated by shear cracks. Whether it is uniaxial compression or biaxial compression, the crack initiation position of the main fracture surface is near the end of the major axis of the oval hole. (2) Under uniaxial compression, the axial stress-strain curve of rock containing the oval hole is smooth before and after the peak, but under biaxial compression, there is obvious fluctuation in the post-peak stage due to crack initiation and propagation. In both uniaxial and biaxial compression, the pre-peak elastic stage of the axial stress-strain curve of the rock containing the oval hole is significantly shortened and the peak stress is significantly reduced compared with the intact rock, which indicates that the bearing capacity of the rock is seriously reduced by the existence of oval hole. (3) When the position and major-minor axis ratio of the oval hole remain unchanged, the uniaxial compressive strength and biaxial compressive strength increase with the increase of the dip angle of the oval hole. When the position and dip angle of the oval hole remain unchanged, the uniaxial compressive strength
[36] Tong Ye,Qinghui Jiang,Shu Jiang ,等.An efficient BPNN-NSGA-II-based calibration framework for finite-discrete element method in rock modeling[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2025,179 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To address the challenges of cumbersome calibration procedures, high computational demands, and limited material diversity associated with current parameter calibration in rock modeling with the finite-discrete element method (FDEM), this paper introduces an advanced numerical parameter calibration framework. This framework integrates machine learning with the FDEM to enable efficient and simultaneous calibration and prediction of numerical parameters for various rock types, including highly, moderately and slightly weathered rocks. Extensive batch calculations using the finite-discrete numerical model generated a dataset comprising uniaxial compressive strength (UCS) and Brazilian tensile strength (BTS) values for weathered rocks. This dataset was employed to establish a mapping between the numerical parameters and UCS/BTS results using a backpropagation neural network (BPNN). By applying the nondominated sorting genetic algorithm II (NSGA-II), we identified an optimal set of numerical parameters that align with UCS/BTS experimental outcomes. Notably, the optimization process incorporates an adaptive correction function formulated as a Dirichlet piecewise type function, as this study proposes. This framework enables precise calibration of numerical parameters across diverse rock masses. Simultaneously, the alignment between the UCS/BTS simulation outcomes, derived from the predicted parameters, and laboratory test results underscores the framework’s potential for efficiently calibrating numerical parameters employed in the FDEM.
[37] Pan, Yilin,Ji, Chunning,Zhang, Zhimeng .Computational fluid dynamics-finite discrete element method simulations of saturated granular material under seismic excitation[J].Physics of Fluids,2026,38 (3),AIP Publishing
摘要：This study develops a novel and efficient computational fluid dynamics-finite discrete element method (CFD-FDEM) framework to simulate the dynamic response of saturated granular materials subjected to seismic excitation. A key innovation is the efficient coupling of fluid and solid phases using the immersed boundary method (IBM), enabling accurate resolution of fluid-solid interactions in dynamic, multiphase systems. To ensure scalability, the framework incorporates a parallelized message passing interface (MPI) architecture with optimized contact detection and a coarse-grained message delivery scheme, which significantly reduces interprocess communication and enhances overall computational performance. According to the particle response, base vibrations are classified as either destructive or nondestructive, and the corresponding spatial-temporal evolution of pore water pressure is systematically analyzed for both cases. In nondestructive cases, particle displacements remain limited, and the system largely retains its initial structure, with only minor pore water pressure variations. In contrast, destructive vibration induces a three-stage particle response-pre-damage, damage, and post-damage stages-accompanied by pronounced cyclic fluctuations in pore pressure. The spatial-temporal evolution of pore pressure under both regimes is analyzed to reveal the underlying fluid-particle coupling mechanisms. The proposed CFD-FDEM framework provides a robust and scalable tool for investigating seismic responses in saturated granular systems, offering new insights into failure mechanisms and pore pressure dynamics.
[38] Penghai Deng,Quansheng Liu,Bin Liu ,等.Failure mechanism and deformation prediction of soft rock tunnels based on a combined finite–discrete element numerical method[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2023,161 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The large deformation mechanisms and predictions of soft rock tunnels have always been important but difficult to solve problems in the field of geotechnical engineering. A combined finite–discrete element numerical simulation method (FDEM) was used to study large deformation mechanism, classification and prediction. The deformations or failure mechanisms of tunnel surrounding rock were revealed, and the failure modes and displacement value prediction of surrounding rock with different strength-stress ratios were also investigated. The following conclusions were obtained: (1) Critical hysteresis damping can be adopted to simulate the progressive large deformation process of soft rock tunnels, which can obtain the final deformation of unsupported tunnels and avoid a dynamic response. (2) Under concentrated tangential stress, the surrounding rock undergoes X-shaped conjugate shear fracture, and this type of fracture network continues to propagate toward the depth of the surrounding rock until the model reaches a stable state;the reduction in tunnel cross-section is mainly caused by the macroscopic movement and volume expansion of rock fragments, and the latter is due to the generation of a large number of macroscopic voids. (3) As the strength-stress ratio decreases, the deformation or failure modes of the surrounding rock can be divided into four categories: elastic–plastic deformation, closed fracturing, shear dilation and broken expansion. (4) Finally, a prediction equation for isotropic and homogeneous soft rock unsupported tunnel deformation with general size driven by hydrostatic in situ stress is obtained, which indicates that with an increasing strength-stress ratio, the surrounding rock displacement decreases as an exponential function, with a correlation coefficient of R<sup>2</sup> = 0.997. In addition, the robustness and reliability of the prediction equation is verified. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[39] Kamran, Muhammad,Liu, Hongyuan,Fukuda, Daisuke ,等.Insights Into the Dynamic Fracturing Behaviours of Rocks Under Multiaxial Static and Dynamic Coupled Loads Through 3D FDEM With Various Contact Algorithms and Cohesive Zone Models[J].International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics,2026,50 (4):1969-2005,WILEY
摘要：Finite-discrete element method (FDEM) has become a widely recognised numerical method for simulating the fracturing behaviour of materials under various loading conditions. However, the substantial computational cost of three-dimensional (3D) FDEM has led to a marked imbalance: extensive research exists on two-dimensional (2D) FDEM, while studies on 3D FDEM remain limited. This study investigates the dynamic fracture behaviours of rocks under multiaxial static and dynamic coupled loads, utilising a self-developed 3D FDEM parallelised based on a general-purpose graphics processing unit (GPGPU). The 3D FDEM incorporates both intrinsic and extrinsic cohesive zone models (ICZM and ECZM) as well as various contact interaction algorithms to facilitate robust simulation of a full-scale triaxial Hopkinson pressure bar (Tri-HB) testing system. Dynamic uniaxial and biaxial compression (UC and BC) tests within the Tri-HB framework are modelled with different combinations of cohesive zone models and contact algorithms, and the results are compared against each other and against laboratory experiments reported in the literature. The simulations demonstrate that the 3D FDEM with all these models and algorithms can reasonably capture the stress wave propagations in both metal bars and rocks as well as the primary dynamic fracturing behaviours of rocks under the coupled static and dynamic loads. However, computing accuracy and efficiency vary across model combinations. Overall, the 3D FDEM with the ECZM achieves the highest accuracy and efficiency.
[40] Zhijun Wu,Ruifeng Zhao,Xiangyu Xu ,等.Data-driven enhanced FDEM for simulating the rock mechanical behavior[J].International Journal of Mechanical Sciences,2024,262 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, a data-driven enhanced combined finite-discrete element method (DDFDEM) is proposed to simulate the rock mechanical behavior by directly assigning the rock experimental data into mechanical simulations, thus bypassing the empirical constitutive model of rock. To achieve this, a novel data-driven iterative solver with transient dynamic system equilibrium constraint is first proposed and embedded into the FDEM computing framework. Then, the bonding force update algorithm for crack elements is improved to mitigate the error accumulation during the iteration process. After that, a recommended formation for the proper size of the experimental data set is proposed to balance the computational accuracy and efficiency of DDFDEM, and an efficient nearest neighbor search algorithm is introduced to significantly improve the computational efficiency of DDFDEM. After the above improvements, the computational accuracy and efficiency of DDFDEM in simulating the rock deformation and complex failure process are validated by conducting several examples, including the thin plate tension test, uniaxial compression test, and Brazilian disk test. Finally, the advantage of DDFDEM over conventional FDEM in comprehensively presenting the information hidden behind the experimental data sets is validated by reproducing the nonlinear mechanical behaviors of rock samples based on a data set following the nonlinear elastic material law. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[41] Bo, Han,Zhang, Chun-lei,Peng, Gen-qiang ,等.Machine learning-driven parameter calibration for the FDEM model in weathered rock seabed[J].Marine Georesources & Geotechnology,2026,44 (2):370-382,TAYLOR & FRANCIS INC
摘要：In areas of weathered rock seabed, the bearing capacity of offshore wind turbine monopile foundations is significantly reduced due to seabed rock fragmentation. The Finite Discrete Element Method (FDEM) is a powerful tool for simulating rock fracture and fragmentation, but calibrating its microscopic parameters remains challenging due to complex nonlinear relationships and reliance on empirical analysis. This study proposes a back-analysis approach integrated with machine learning as a means of establishing bidirectional mappings between Type I and Type II fracture energy parameters (GI, GII) and target mechanical properties (tensile strength, fracture modes). A dataset comprising 250 FDEM simulations from Brazilian splitting tests on weathered granite was constructed by systematically varying GI and GII values to capture their impact on Brazilian Tensile Strength (BTS). Two composite models were developed: Hierarchical Support Vector Regression (HSVR) and Neural Network Extreme Gradient Boosting (NeurXGB). NeurXGB achieved superior performance, with R2 exceeding 0.97 for forward prediction and 0.89 for inverse parameter inversion, surpassing the performance of four traditional methods. The proposed framework offers a systematic and efficient approach to FDEM parameter Calibration by reducing calibration time and circumventing iterative trial-and-error processes.
[42] 张永成,盖广鑫,宗望远 ,等.基于FDEM的核桃挤压-剪切载荷下破碎机理与减损方法[J].农业机械学报,2025,56 (3):291-300
摘要：破壳取仁是核桃精深加工的重要环节,针对现有核桃破壳方式脱壳效率低、整仁率不高等问题,本文通过有限元耦合离散单元法(FDEM)模拟核桃在挤压剪切载荷下的破碎过程,提出了一种挤压-剪切破壳方法,测定了温185核桃壳厚、壳仁间隙等物理参数,构建了仿真模型并进行了参数标定。通过定性和定量分析了核桃壳和仁在挤压-剪切载荷下破壳角度对壳仁断裂的影响以及破壳角度和压缩量对核桃壳仁破碎影响规律,明晰了核桃挤压-剪切载荷下破碎机理及核仁损伤的原因。结果表明:核桃壳仁破碎机理为核桃壳在拉伸主导下断裂,在接触表面产生贯穿裂纹,有利于核桃快速破壳,核桃仁在剪切主导下断裂,在破壳过程中核桃仁易与壳发生多点接触,产生应力集中导致断裂发生,不利于保持仁的完整性,各破壳角度下随着压缩量增加,核桃壳受到持续加载的力使其向里运动,导致核桃仁损伤逐渐增加。以上机理表明,若在核桃壳发生初次断裂后不继续施加破壳力,给其一个恢复变形时间,然后继续施加间歇加载力,减少壳与仁的多点接触,可使其在小位移下进行多次破壳,有效降低核桃仁损伤。提出了同向对辊破壳方式实现多次小位移破壳,并进行了试验验证,优化结果表明两辊转速分别为33、28 r/min、破壳间隙为33 mm时,破壳率为96.9%,整仁率为84.3%,与传统对向旋转破壳方式相比,破壳率、整仁率分别提高7.7、3.2个百分点,研究结果可为核桃破壳效果的提升提供理论参考。
[43] Wang, Weiqin,Ren, Jianju,Liu, Kaide ,等.Investigation of the influence of model control parameters on fracture characteristics of GPU parallel FDEM[J].Geomechanics and Geophysics for Geo-Energy and Geo-Resources,2023,9 (1):1-19,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：Surrounding rock mass fracture characteristics play a significant role in the understanding of the CO2 geological storage and utilization (CGSU) engineering practices in abandoned mines. The combined finite discrete element method (FDEM) shows advantages in simulating fracture and fragmentation of rock-like materials, however, many computational parameters and a lack of basis for accurate values affect the simulation results. For systematic explorations of the influence of the effect of model parameters with different time steps, this study conducted different loading rate specimen tests and unloading rate tests both in laboratory-scale tests and field-scale based on the CUDA-based GPU parallel FDEM program. In laboratory-scale uniaxial compressive strength (UCS) tests, a smaller loading rate ensures a quasi-static loading process and should be below 0.1 ms(-1) for simulation. Then, continuous optimization and improvement of the GPU parallel FDEM in tunnel excavation were proposed, and the model parameters reflect the continuous improvement of the simulation results. In the process, the tunnel excavation simulation method with the reduction rate of the opening zone's Young's modulus in the excavation was performed to investigate the unloading mode and rate by continuing to optimize the GPU parallel FDEM program and model parameters. Besides, the main factor in fracture mode and failure mechanism of the surrounding rock mass also was calibrated. The results indicate that the system kinetic energy of the model is maintained at a small level with the reasonable unloading mode and critical threshold set at a small value, the damping parameters, dissipation mechanism, and excavation fractures are clearer and reasonable, and the computational cost is significantly reduced with GPU parallel FDEM.
[44] Zheng, Yuchen,Yan, Chengzeng .A Coupled FDEM-SPH Model for Simulating Problems of Fluid-Solid Interaction[J].International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics,2025,49 (14):3317-3336,WILEY
摘要：This paper introduces the FDEM-SPH model, which combines the strengths of FDEM to simulate solid deformation, fracture, and fragmentation and SPH to simulate fluid flow. The coupling of these two methods is achieved through dynamic boundary conditions at the fluid boundary and the application of fluid forces at the solid boundary. The accuracy of the SPH code is validated through the dam collapse test, while the correctness of the FDEM-SPH model is confirmed by the hydrostatic pressure and floating object test, and Scott Russell's wave generator. The FDEM-SPH model is then utilized to simulate hydraulic fracturing and deformable landslide surges. Unlike existing FDEM-based hydro-mechanical models, which are limited by the connection relationship between the joint element and the triangular element, the FDEM-SPH model overcomes this limitation and is capable of simulating large-scale fluid-solid interaction problems, such as large-aperture hydraulic fracturing, landslide surges, water entry, et al.
[45] 张育维,张锴,郑百林 .三元活性颗粒在外部载荷作用下锂化诱导断裂的有限离散元分析[J].力学季刊,2024,45 (4):993-1005
摘要：部分实验发现,对锂离子电池在充放电过程中施加一定外部压力可以提高循环性能,但压力是如何影响活性颗粒的断裂机理仍有待探究.对锂电池施加的外力往往会以两种形式传递到电极颗粒上:一种是通过电池密闭空间中的气体和液体的压缩均匀传递到活性颗粒表面;另外一种是通过电池外壳作用在电极材料上,并通过粘结剂传递到活性颗粒上.本文基于有限离散元(Finite-Discrete Element Method,FDEM)建立了有限变形下的扩散诱导断裂模型,分析三元正极多晶颗粒在嵌锂扩散过程中受外加压力作用时的断裂行为.数值结果表明,对于两类外力传递模型,较小的均布压力都无法将颗粒中心的拉应力降低到不开裂的水平,仍有少量中心裂纹出现;而较大的均布压力使活性颗粒内部的最大主应力变为压应力,对活性颗粒内部结构完整的保持有更好的效果.增加外加压力的大小会使活性颗粒由扩散诱导产生的拉应力全部转化为压应力,避免了拉应力导致的裂纹,抑制了活性颗粒在锂化过程中的裂纹扩展.
[46] Yiming Lei,Quansheng Liu,He Liu ,等.A 3D coupled multibody dynamics (MBD)-FDEM framework with GPGPU parallelization for simulating TBM-ground interaction and orientation behavior[J].Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology,2026,172 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study proposes a 3D coupled MBD (Multibody Dynamics)-FDEM (Finite-Discrete Element Method) framework for simulating TBM (Tunnel Boring Machine)-ground interaction and orientation response. In this method, the surrounding rock is modeled as deformable bodies using FDEM to capture fracturing and fragmentation behaviors as well as the complex contact interactions due to TBM tunneling, while TBM components (shield, cutter head, and disc cutters) are represented as rigid bodies simulated by MBD to efficiently capture their independent motions and mechanical couplings under external contact loads. For each TBM component, the motion is decomposed into the translation of its mass center and rotation about that center, where the translational motion is solved collectively for the entire assembly, and the rotational motion is first computed individually and then efficiently integrated using a quaternion-based orientation update algorithm. To enhance computational efficiency, a GPGPU parallelization scheme for MBD is proposed and coupled with FDEM via a unified contact pipeline under the conventional serial staggered (CCS) scheme. The proposed MBD-FDEM is first validated by a rolling test and a linear disc-cutter test, and its effectiveness is further demonstrated through TBM-ground interaction and orientation simulations, which indicate potential for TBM orientation prediction and guidance in complex geologies.
[47] Wei, Xuanchun,Wang, Lei,Li, Yancao ,等.A Fatigue Cohesive Law-Embedded Finite-Discrete Element Method for Pulsed Hydraulic Fracture Simulation[J].International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics,2025,49 (5):1359-1377,WILEY
摘要：The pulsed hydraulic fracture (PHF) is a stimulation technique of reservoir, which can lower breakdown pressure by generating fatigue fracture. In this study, a fatigue cohesive law is proposed and embedded into the finite-discrete element method (FDEM) to describe the fatigue failure of the interface under cyclic loading. The fatigue is assumed to result from the accumulation of plastic deformation, whose increment is related to the traction variation range of each cycle and the total plastic deformation. The proposed fatigue cohesive law is validated by the uniaxial compression and mixed-mode three-point bending test simulation. Then this fatigue cohesive law is embedded into a fully hydraulic-mechanical coupled FDEM to simulate the PHF. The influence of loading scheme, flow rate, frequency, viscosity and natural fracture density on PHF behaviors is discussed. The results suggest that both the pressure- and injection rate-controlled PHF can reduce the breakdown pressure. The flow rate, frequency, and viscosity have a great impact on the performance of PHF. The natural fractures surrounding a hydraulic fracture (HF) can be gradually activated under cyclic injection. The activated natural fractures contribute to the complicated HF network. These results indicate that the proposed fatigue cohesive model can effectively simulate the fatigue fracture of rock and HF propagation under cyclic injection.
[48] Zhang, Tengsheng,Huang, Junhong,Li, Xinping ,等.Understanding the Damage and Crack Evolution of Coral Reef Limestone Under Stress-Seepage Coupling: Insights From the Finite-Discrete Element Method[J].International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics,2026,50 (2):1128-1144,WILEY
摘要：To investigate the damage and failure behavior as well as crack evolution characteristics of coral reef limestone under stress-seepage coupling, a damage constitutive model was developed for coral reef limestone subjected to coupled stress-seepage conditions. Based on the FDEM (Finite-Discrete Element Method), the mechanical behavior, mesoscopic progressive failure process, and crack propagation mechanisms were analyzed. The regulatory effects of confining pressure and pore water pressure on the mechanical response and seepage evolution of the coral reef limestone were also clarified. The results show that coral reef limestone exhibits pronounced brittle failure characteristics under stress-seepage coupling. Its mechanical behavior is jointly controlled by confining pressure and seepage pressure: strength and deformation capacity increase with confining pressure but decrease with pore water pressure. The constitutive model developed using the FDEM approach can accurately describe the mechanical behavior of the rock mass under coupled stress-seepage conditions and shows a high degree of agreement with experimental results. Confining pressure and water pressure have significant effects on the mechanical behavior and crack evolution of coral reef limestone. Under low confining and seepage pressures, cracks primarily propagate linearly in a shear-dominated mode. As both pressures increase, the failure mode gradually transitions to a mixed tensile-shear regime, with increased crack density and more complex propagation paths. Eventually, a multi-branched and multi-level through-going failure network forms, resulting in a significant reduction in residual strength. These findings provide theoretical support for stability assessment of underground island engineering and prevention of seepage-induced geohazards.
[49] Yiming Lei,Quansheng Liu,He Liu ,等.An updated Lagrangian framework with quadratic element formulations for FDEM[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2023,164 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, quadratic element formulations (i.e., ten-node tetrahedral elements and twelve-node cohesive elements) are proposed to improve the computational accuracy of the three-dimensional combined finite-discrete element method (3D FDEM). The ten-node tetrahedral element formulation is developed based on the isoparametric transformation. As for the twelve-node cohesive element formulation, the opening displacement is described by quadratic interpolation within the element, which is fully compatible and connected with the adjacent ten-node tetrahedral elements. To integrate quadratic element formulations into FDEM, a novel and more generalized updated Lagrangian framework (UL-FDEM) is developed to replace the non-Cartesian framework in the original FDEM. The equilibrium equation of UL-FDEM is established based on the principle of virtual work. Subsequently, the governing equation of UL-FDEM is derived by employing the isoparametric discretization techniques. Several numerical examples are provided to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. The results demonstrate that this approach is well-suited for the geometrically nonlinear analysis and achieves higher accuracy in stress and fracturing predictions than the original FDEM under the same mesh size. The proposed approach can use fewer elements to perform fracturing analysis, thus improving computational efficiency. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[50] Zou, Wenchao,Huang, Zhongwei,Wang, Zikang ,等.Numerical Analysis of Fracture Propagation Behavior in Hard Rocks Subjected to Radial Borehole Fracturing Based on the Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method[M],2024,American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA)
摘要：Hydraulic fracturing is an important stimulation technology to achieve high and stable production in deep and ultra-deep reservoirs. However, there are currently numerous complex technical problems, such as high breakdown pressure, single fracture and uncontrollable. To addressing those issues, a novel stimulation, radial borehole fracturing has been proposed. To have a clear understanding of the radial borehole fracturing performance, a 3D Finite-Discrete Element Method model of radial borehole fracturing is established in this paper. Then, the applicability of the HM coupled FDEM model was validated by laboratory experiments. The results indicate that when horizontal stress difference ratio is 0.4, radial borehole fracturing has a significant guiding effect on fracture propagation behavior. Radial borehole fracturing creates fractures with larger tortuosity and aperture. Compared to conventional fracturing, the breakdown pressure of hard rock in radial borehole fracturing is 9.1%~14.1% lower. As Young's modulus increases, the guidance of radial borehole and the complexity of fracture network strengthen. The present study is expected to provide a theoretical foundation for applicability of radial borehole fracturing in deep and ultra-deep reservoirs. Copyright 2024 ARMA, American Rock Mechanics Association.