[1] Han, Yanhui .An integrative numerical modeling framework for attacking sand production problem[M],2014,3 :2171-2178,American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA)
摘要：This paper presents a comprehensive numerical modeling framework integrating macroscopic continuum and microscopic discontinuum numerical modeling methodologies. The continuum model is formulated on the poro-elastic-plastic theory in combination of erosion law. The discontinuum model couples discrete element method with pore-scale fluid flow model (e.g., lattice Boltzmann method). The microscopic discontinuum model can capture most primary hydromcchanical physics occurring in the sand production process but its computation cost is very expensive, so it is used to develop erosion laws through performing extensive parametric study in modeling small-sized problems. The developed erosion laws are integrated into the continuum model to investigate real-sized problems. The theoretical formulations of the poromechanics and erosion laws are briefly reviewed. The discrete element - lattice Boltzmann coupling scheme is described with a couple of examples demonstrating its suitability in serving as a virtual laboratory for erosion law improvement or calibration. Copyright © 2014 ARMA.
[2] Tian, Qian,Zhao, Zhiye,Bao, Huirong .Block fracturing analysis using nodal-based discontinuous deformation analysis with the double minimization procedure[J].International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics,2014,38 (9):881-902,WILEY
摘要：As a hybrid method, the nodal-based discontinuous deformation analysis (NDDA) greatly improves the stress accuracy within each DDA block by coupling a well-defined finite element mesh inside the DDA block;at the same time, the NDDA inherits the unique block kinematics of the standard DDA method. Each finite element mesh line inside the DDA block is treated as a potential crack, which enables the transformation of the block material from continuum to discontinuum through the tensile and shear fracturing mechanism. This paper introduces a double minimization procedure into the NDDA method to further improve the accuracy of the stresses evaluated at the finite element mesh lines and thus to obtain a more realistic fracture model. Three numerical examples are employed to demonstrate the improved stress accuracy by the implemented double minimization procedure and the accuracy and capability of the enhanced NDDA method in capturing brittle fracturing process. Copyright (c) 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
[3] Zhou, Jian,Deng, Yi-Bing,Jia, Min-Cai ,等.Coupling method of two-dimensional discontinuum-continuum based on contact between particle and element[J].岩土工程学报,2010,32 (10):1479-1484,Chinese Society of Civil Engineering
摘要：A coupling method of two-dimensional discontinuum-continuum is proposed based on the combination of the discrete element method (DEM) and the finite difference method (FDM). The DEM is used in the focus zone, and the finite difference method is used in the surrounding zone. The contact between the finite elements and the particle at the boundary edges follows the principles defined in the DEM. In the continuum element, the velocities at the contact point are related to the nodal velocities by interpolation, and the contact forces are contributed to the nodal forces with weight value. The FLAC and PFC are introduced to approach the coupling method by the socket connection. An example is presented to demonstrate the validity of the present method.
[4] Tak, Moonho,Park, Duhee,Park, Taehyo .Computational Coupled Method for Multiscale and Phase Analysis[J].Journal of Engineering Materials and Technology,2013,135 (2):021013,ASME
摘要：On micro scale the constitutions of porous media are effected by other constitutions, so their behaviors are very complex and it is hard to derive theoretical formulations as well as to simulate on macro scale. For decades, in order to escape this complication, the phenomenological approaches in a field of multiscale methods have been extensively researched by many material scientists and engineers. Their theoretical approaches are based on the hierarchical multiscale methods using a priori knowledge on a smaller scale;however it has a drawback that an information loss can be occurred. Recently, according to a development of the core technologies of computer, the ways of multiscale are extended to a direct multiscale approach called the concurrent multiscale method. This approach is not necessary to deal with complex mathematical formulations, but it is noted as an important factor: development of computational coupling algorithms between constitutions in a porous medium. In this work, we attempt to develop coupling algorithms in different numerical methods finite element method (FEM), smoothed particle hydrodynamics (SPH) and discrete element method (DEM). Using this coupling algorithm, fluid flow, movement of solid particle, and contact forces between solid domains are computed via proposed discrete element which is based on SPH, FEM, and DEM. In addition, a mixed FEM on continuum level and discrete element model with SPH particles on discontinuum level is introduced, and proposed coupling algorithm is verified through numerical simulation.
[5] Minkley, W.,Knauth, M.,Brückner, D. .Discontinuum-mechanical behaviour of salt rocks and the practical relevance for the integrity of salinar barriers[M],2013,2 :1522-1534,American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA)
摘要：Up to now salt rocks have been predominantly regarded as a continuum and the mechanical effect of the present discontinuities have been neglected to a great extent. However, for a complete understanding of geomechanical phenomena this approach proves to be insufficient. Discontinuum-mechanical aspects are of importance for the integrity of salinar barriers, not only in the macro-, but also in the micro-scale. In the grain scale, polycristalline salt represents a discontinuum constituted of intergrown crystal grains. Grain boundaries are micro-mechanical weakness planes that preferably fail under loading. For the mechanical description we therefore employ an elasto-visco-plastic model for the salt crystals as well as an adhesive frictional model for the grain boundaries. The discontinuum-mechanical approach has been deduced from experimental investigations in the laboratory and in situ. Based on this discontinuum- mechanical approach, hydro-mechanical coupling like the pressure-driven percolation of fluids, intergranular microcracking and hydraulic fracturing can be analyzed. The results demonstrate how the integrity of salinar barriers depends on hydro-mechanical processes on the grain-scale. The discontinuum-mechanical micro-structure of salt rocks characterizes essential properties and is the key to the physical understanding of pressure-driven percolation of fluids by the creation of connectivity within the salt rocks as soon as the fluid pressure overcomes the normal stress on the grain boundaries. Practical applications are the investigation of the integrity of salinar barriers in potash and salt mining, the proof of the relevancy of hydro-thermo-mechanical loading in connection with the final disposal of heat-generation radioactive waste and the usage of fluid-filled caverns for waste disposal as well as cavern abandonment. Copyright 2013 ARMA, American Rock Mechanics Association.
[6] Liu, Yao-lu,Zhou, Yuan-de .Meshless Modeling of the Breakage Process of a Coal Prism within Vertical Roller Mills[M].ADVANCED MATERIALS AND ENGINEERING MATERIALS II,2013,683 :492-+,TRANS TECH PUBLICATIONS LTD
摘要：This paper presents an investigation into the roll compression induced breakage process of a coal prism within a vertical roller mill. The targeted process was characterized by strong nonlinearities arisen from large deformation, and from original continuum to final discontinuum. A numerical approach coupling the Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics (SPH) method and the finite element method (FEM) was developed for such a type of analysis. The SPH method was used to model a coal prism and its interaction with the mill structure, while the roller and the support table in the mill were modeled with the FEM. This computational model makes it possible to predict the deformation and progressive disintegration process in the coal prism, as well as the reaction force mobilized along the specimen-roller interface. Using a cubic coal specimen as an instance, the paper presents a preliminary numerical study under prescribed geometry and working conditions of a mill machine. Typical results of the breakage process as well as the development of contact force were provided and discussed.
[7] Tak Moonho,Park Duhee,Park Taehyo .Computational Coupled Method for Multiscale and Phase Analysis.[J].J Eng Mater Technol,2013,135 (2):210131-2101311
摘要：On micro scale the constitutions of porous media are effected by other constitutions, so their behaviors are very complex and it is hard to derive theoretical formulations as well as to simulate on macro scale. For decades, in order to escape this complication, the phenomenological approaches in a field of multiscale methods have been extensively researched by many material scientists and engineers. Their theoretical approaches are based on the hierarchical multiscale methods using a priori knowledge on a smaller scale; however it has a drawback that an information loss can be occurred. Recently, according to a development of the core technologies of computer, the ways of multiscale are extended to a direct multiscale approach called the concurrent multiscale method. This approach is not necessary to deal with complex mathematical formulations, but it is noted as an important factor: development of computational coupling algorithms between constitutions in a porous medium. In this work, we attempt to develop coupling algorithms in different numerical methods finite element method (FEM), smoothed particle hydrodynamics (SPH) and discrete element method (DEM). Using this coupling algorithm, fluid flow, movement of solid particle, and contact forces between solid domains are computed via proposed discrete element which is based on SPH, FEM, and DEM. In addition, a mixed FEM on continuum level and discrete element model with SPH particles on discontinuum level is introduced, and proposed coupling algorithm is verified through numerical simulation.
[8] Yao-lu Liu,Yuan-de Zhou .Meshiess Modeling of the Breakage Process of a Coal Prism within Vertical Roller Mills[M],2012,Trans Tech Publications
摘要：This paper presents an investigation into the roll compression induced breakage process of a coal prism within a vertical roller mill. The targeted process was characterized by strong nonlinearities arisen from large deformation, and from original continuum to final discontinuum. A numerical approach coupling the Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics (SPH) method and the finite element method (FEM) was developed for such a type of analysis. The SPH method was used to model a coal prism and its interaction with the mill structure, while the roller and the support table in the mill were modeled with the FEM. This computational model makes it possible to predict the deformation and progressive disintegration process in the coal prism, as well as the reaction force mobilized along the specimen-roller interface. Using a cubic coal specimen as an instance, the paper presents a preliminary numerical study under prescribed geometry and working conditions of a mill machine. Typical results of the breakage process as well as the development of contact force were provided and discussed.
[9] 陈建峰,郑希,李辉利 ,等.软土地基加筋土挡墙二维离散-连续耦合模拟[J].土木工程学报,2011,44 (S2):33-36
摘要：本文对一软土地基上土工格栅反包直立墙面加筋土挡墙进行数值模拟,挡墙部分采用离散元模拟分析,软土地基部分采用有限差分法模拟分析。通过PFC和FLAC的Socket I/O接口,实现二维离散-连续耦合分析。采用该离散-连续耦合方法对静载下加筋土挡墙的变形、颗粒位移场、土压力分布进行细观分析,并与相似比例模型试验实测结果进行比较,数值模拟结果与实测结果比较一致,表明该耦合分析方法是合理的。
[10] 刘洋,李世海,刘晓宇 .基于连续介质离散元的双重介质渗流应力耦合模型[J].岩石力学与工程学报,2011,30 (5):951-959
摘要：为模拟边坡在库水涨落和降雨作用下的渐进破坏过程,发展基于连续介质离散元的双重介质渗流应力耦合模型。它分为固体计算模型、孔隙渗流应力耦合模型和裂隙渗流应力耦合模型3个部分。固体计算模型能够反映地质体的破坏规律,可以模拟从连续到非连续的破坏过程;孔隙渗流应力耦合模型可以方便地计算出自由水位线(浸润线)的位置;裂隙渗流应力耦合模型可以避免由于不连通裂隙(孤立裂隙)存在所导致的收敛性问题;假设只考虑库水涨落和降雨的最终状态,裂隙渗流产生的水头分布和由库水涨落所引起的水头改变作为孔隙渗流的变边界条件,从而实现孔隙渗流场和裂隙渗流场的耦合。典型算例计算结果表明,基于连续介质离散元的双重介质渗流应力耦合模型对于库区古滑坡的研究是很有效的。
[11] Liu, Yang,Li, Shihai,Liu, Xiaoyu .Coupled fluid flow and stress computation model of dual media based on continuum-medium distinct element method[J].岩石力学与工程学报,2011,30 (5):951-959,Academia Sinica
摘要：To simulate the progressive failure process of the slope in water level fluctuation and rainfall conditions, a coupled fluid flow and stress computation model of dual media is established based on continuum-medium distinct element method. It contains solid calculation model, pore hydromechanical coupling model and fissure hydromechanical coupling model. Solid calculation model could reflect failure regularity of the geologic body, also could simulate the process from continuum to discontinuum. Pore hydromechanical coupling model could calculate the location of phreatic surface conveniently. Fissure hydromechanical coupling model could avoid convergence problem caused by isolated fissure. Considering the final states of the water level fluctuation and rainfall, the waterhead distribution caused by fissure seepage and water level fluctuation in reservoir are regarded as the variable boundary condition, thus implementing the coupling analysis for pore and fissure seepage flow field. Typical example computational results show that a coupled fluid flow and stress computation model of dual media based on continuum-medium distinct element method is very effective for the analysis of reservoir ancient landslide.
[12] Zhou, Guifen,Zhang, Sihua,Xu, Shucai ,等.Multiscale Simulation in Mesoscopic Dynamic Behavior of Lunar Soil Simulant Subjected to Rigid Lugged Wheel[M].INFORMATION ENGINEERING FOR MECHANICS AND MATERIALS SCIENCE, PTS 1 AND 2,2011,80-81 :575-+,TRANS TECH PUBLICATIONS LTD
摘要：The continuum/discontinuum multiscale analytical system of the interaction between rigid wheel and lunar soil by coupling discrete elements and matrix module was established. The DEM parameter of lunar soil particles was confirmed by the biax-test. The mesoscopic dynamic behaviors of lunar soil simulant subjected to rigid lugged wheel with different structures were simulanted and analysized by the multiscale method. Comparing the simulation results with the soil-bin test results, the multiscale model not only satisfied the computation accuracy, but also had the much higher computation efficiency.
[13] Guifen Zhou,Sihua Zhang,Shucai Xu ,等.Multiscale Simulation in Mesoscopic Dynamic Behavior of Lunar Soil Simulant Subjected to Rigid Lugged Wheel[M],2011
摘要：The continuum/discontinuum multiscale analytical system of the interaction between rigid wheel and lunar soil by coupling discrete elements and matrix module was established. The DEM parameter of lunar soil particles was confirmed by the biax-test. The mesoscopic dynamic behaviors of lunar soil simulant subjected to rigid lugged wheel with different structures were simulanted and analysized by the multiscale method. Comparing the simulation results with the soil-bin test results, the multiscale model not only satisfied the computation accuracy, but also had the much higher computation efficiency.
[14] Guifen Zhou,Sihua Zhang,Shucai Xu ,等.Multiscale Simulation in Mesoscopic Dynamic Behavior of Lunar Soil Simulant Subjected to Rigid Lugged Wheel[M],2011
摘要：The continuum/discontinuum multiscale analytical system of the interaction between rigid wheel and lunar soil by coupling discrete elements and matrix module was established. The DEM parameter of lunar soil particles was confirmed by the biax-test. The mesoscopic dynamic behaviors of lunar soil simulant subjected to rigid lugged wheel with different structures were simulanted and analysized by the multiscale method. Comparing the simulation results with the soil-bin test results, the multiscale model not only satisfied the computation accuracy, but also had the much higher computation efficiency.
[15] 周健,邓益兵,贾敏才 ,等.基于颗粒单元接触的二维离散-连续耦合分析方法[J].岩土工程学报,2010,32 (10):1479-1484
摘要：结合离散单元法与有限差分法发展了离散–连续耦合分析方法。在中心区域采用离散元分析,其周围区域采用有限差分法分析。采用离散元中颗粒接触计算模型计算离散–连续交界面处的颗粒与单元相互接触作用,在连续单元中接触点速度按型函数对交界面处的节点速度进行插值,将与颗粒的接触力按权值函数分配到交界面节点上。通过PFC和FLAC的Socket I/O接口,实现二维离散–连续耦合分析,并通过对二维算例分析,表明了该耦合分析方法的有效性。
[16] BAO HUIRONG .NODAL-BASED DISCONTINUOUS DEFORMATIONANALYSIS[D],2010
摘要：This thesis presents an enhanced nodal-based discontinuous deformation analysis (NDDA) based on the coupling of the discontinuous deformation analysis (DDA) and the finite element method (FEM), for modeling blocky systems, especially for simulating crack propagation in rock mass. The NDDA can provide a more accurate stress and strain distribution in each block and has a higher computational efficiency than the standard DDA in dealing with continuum materials. Furthermore, the enhanced NDDA allows for tensile and shear fracturing happening inside an intact block, which provides a way for material transforming from continuum into discontinuum. A computer program named 2D-NDDA was developed to handle the combination of continuous and discontinuous in large displacement problems, as well as large deformation and failure analysis, under external loads and boundary conditions. After a brief introduction of the concept of the standard DDA, detailed reviews of the validation and enhancement of the DDA in the past decades are given in the thesis. The formulae of NDDA, including the analytical solutions for the inertia matrix and contact matrices which control the stability of the open-close iterations of block kinematics, are provided and discussed. In the strict sense of the word, the NDDA is not a simple couple of the FEM and the DDA but a unifying of them. It can work at three states: pure FEM, pure DDA and mixed. The NDDA works in an FEM mode when the system is continuous, in a DDA mode if the system is totally discontinuous, or in a mixed mode for mixed state. There is no difficult to carry out the idea of NDDA since the FEM and the DDA are both derived from the minimization of the total potential energy of the system. More conveniently, any FEM code can be easily transformed into a DDA code when the kinematics part is considered. To transform an FEM algorithm into a DDA algorithm, two steps are necessary: (1) scheme for the fracture of the continuous material; (2) intr
[17] Zhang Rui,Chen Bin,Li Jianqiao .Research on the continuum/discontinuum multiscale analytical system of the interaction between rigid wheel and lunar soil[M],2009,IEEE
摘要：The continuum/discontinuum multiscale computations have great advantages in the large wheel/soil interaction simulations. Based on DEM software PFC2D (R), the continuum/discontinuum multiscale analytical system of the interaction between rigid wheel and lunar soil by coupling discrete elements and matrix module was established. In the multiscale system, Bulk material particles on the surface being cut by the rigid wheel were simulated by discrete elements, and the part in the deep layer being produced elastic deformation was simulated by matrix module. Through one example of the interaction between rigid wheel and lunar soil using the multiscale model and the DEM model, and comparing the simulation results with the soil-bin test results, the multiscale model not only satisfied the computation accuracy, but also had the much higher computation efficiency.
[18] Deisman, Nathan,Chalaturnyk, Richard J.,Ivars, Diego Mas .An adaptive continuum/discontinuum coupled reservoir geomechanics simulation approach for fractured reservoirs[M],2009,2 :1314-1321,Society of Petroleum Engineers
摘要：Geomechanical effects during several stages of the reservoir life cycle are becoming more important in understanding the overall behaviour of the reservoir. Fractured reservoirs are generally recognized to be sensitive to changes in effective stress caused by production activities including production and injection processes. Using a reservoir simulation approach which incorporates geomechanical processes occurring in a fractured reservoir offers insight into reservoir management strategies. Some of the processes include changes in effective stress due to pressure depletion and/or thermal recovery, creation of new fractures, and changes in fracture apertures. All process effects influence fracture and matrix permeability and porosity and, in some cases can be identified by changes in acoustic properties and seismicity. A reservoir simulation approach which attempts to capture all of these processes must link four simulation approaches in an adaptive nature. A reservoir simulator is used to represent the complex fluid flow processes found in thermal and multi component fluid reservoirs. A continuum geomechanical simulator is used to capture the effects of changes in reservoir pressure, temperature and fluid volumes on the effective stress field. A particle flow code with an embedded fracture network is applied to capture the changes in apertures, creation of new fractures, and dynamic geomechanical continuum properties as well as the acoustic response. A discrete fracture network program is used to create equivalent permeabilities and porosities, while accounting for changes in apertures and new formed fractures. All of these codes are coupled to capture the complex processes described above in adaptive reservoir continuum/ discontinuum coupling. Copyright 2009, Society of Petroleum Engineers.
[19] .Research on the continuum/discontinuum multiscale analytical system of the interaction between rigid wheel and lunar soil[M],2009
摘要：The continuum/discontinuum multiscale computations have great advantages in the large wheel/soil interaction simulations. Based on DEM software PFC2D&#x00AE;, the continuum/discontinuum multiscale analytical system of the interaction between rigid wheel and lunar soil by coupling discrete elements and matrix module was established. In the multiscale system, Bulk material particles on the surface being cut by the rigid wheel were simulated by discrete elements, and the part in the deep layer being produced elastic deformation was simulated by matrix module. Through one example of the interaction between rigid wheel and lunar soil using the multiscale model and the DEM model, and comparing the simulation results with the soil-bin test results, the multiscale model not only satisfied the computation accuracy, but also had the much higher computation efficiency.
[20] Owen, D.R.J.,Feng, Y.T.,Labao, M. ,等.Fluid/structure coupling in fracturing solids and particulate media[M].Geomechanics and Geoengineering,2009,4 (1):27-37
摘要：The objective of the paper is to present the essential issues related to an effective computational implementation of a continuum/discontinuum formulation of rock masses under various loading conditions, including fluid interaction for three classes of problems;fluid flow through fracturing rock masses, rock blasting and the transport of large particles through a fluid medium. The applicability of the methodology developed is illustrated through a selection of practical examples.
[21] Nathan Deisman,Richard J Chalaturnyk .An Adaptive Continuum/Discontinuum Coupled Reservoir Geomechanics Simulation Approach for Fractured Reservoirs[M],2009,Society of Petroleum Engineers
摘要：Geomechanical effects during several stages of the reservoir life cycle are becoming more important in understanding the overall behaviour of the reservoir. Fractured reservoirs are generally recognized to be sensitive to changes in effective stress caused by production activities including production and injection processes. Using a reservoir simulation approach which incorporates geomechanical processes occurring in a fractured reservoir offers insight into reservoir management strategies. Some of the processes include changes in effective stress due to pressure depletion and/or thermal recovery, creation of new fractures, and changes in fracture apertures. All process effects influence fracture and matrix permeability and porosity and, in some cases can be identified by changes in acoustic properties and seismicity. A reservoir simulation approach which attempts to capture all of these processes must link four simulation approaches in an adaptive nature. A reservoir simulator is used to represent the complex fluid flow processes found in thermal and multi component fluid reservoirs. A continuum geomechanical simulator is used to capture the effects of changes in reservoir pressure, temperature and fluid volumes on the effective stress field. A particle flow code with an embedded fracture network is applied to capture the changes in apertures, creation of new fractures, and dynamic geomechanical continuum properties as well as the acoustic response. A discrete fracture network program is used to create equivalent permeabilities and porosities, while accounting for changes in apertures and new formed fractures. All of these codes are coupled to capture the complex processes described above in adaptive reservoir continuum/discontinuum coupling.
[22] Gu, Fagang .Reservoir and geomechanical coupled simulation of carbon dioxide sequestration and enhanced coalbed methane recovery[D],2009
摘要：Coalbeds are an extremely complicated porous medium with characteristics of heterogeneity, dual porosity and stress sensitivity. In the past decades great achievements have been made to the simulation models of pressure depletion coalbed methane (CBM) recovery process and CO2 sequestration and enhanced coalbed methane (ECBM) recovery process. However, some important mechanisms are still not or not properly included. Among them, the influence of geomechanics is probably the most important one. Because of its influence coalbed permeability, the key parameter for the success of methane recovery processes, changes drastically with alterations of in situ stresses and strains during these processes. In present reservoir simulators, the change of coalbed permeability is estimated with analytical models. Due to the assumptions and over simplifications analytical models have limitations or problems in application. In this research in order to properly estimate the changes of permeability and porosity in the simulation of CO2 sequestration and ECBM recovery process, comprehensive permeability and porosity models have been developed with minimum assumptions and corresponding simulation methods established. Firstly, a set of continuum medium porosity and permeability coupling models is built up and a corresponding simulation procedure to apply these models in reservoir and geomechanical coupled simulations is proposed. Using the models and simulation procedure a sensitivity study, mainly on the parameters related to coalbed permeability change and deformation, has been made for the CBM recovery process. Then based on the understanding, a set of discontinuum medium porosity and permeability coupling models is developed and a corresponding procedure to apply these models in reservoir and geomechanical coupled simulations is presented. The new models are more comprehensive and adaptable, and can accommodate a wide range of coalbeds and in situ conditions. The proposed equivalent c
[23] Morris, Joseph,Johnson, Scott .Dynamic simulations of geological materials using combined FEM/DEM/SPH analysis[M].Geomechanics and Geoengineering,2009,4 (1):91-101
摘要：An overview of the Lawrence Discrete Element Code (LDEC) is presented, and results from a study investigating the effect of explosive and impact loading on geological materials using the Livermore Distinct Element Code (LDEC) are detailed. LDEC was initially developed to simulate tunnels and other structures in jointed rock masses using large numbers of polyhedral blocks. Many geophysical applications, such as projectile penetration into rock, concrete targets and boulder fields, require a combination of continuum and discrete methods in order to predict the formation and interaction of the fragments produced. In an effort to model this class of problems, LDEC now includes implementations of Cosserat point theory and cohesive elements. This approach directly simulates the transition from continuum to discontinuum behaviour, thereby allowing for dynamic fracture within a combined finite element/discrete element framework. In addition, there are many applications involving geological materials where fluid-structure interaction is important. To facilitate solution of this class of problems a smooth particle hydrodynamics (SPH) capability has been incorporated into LDEC to simulate fully coupled systems involving geological materials and a saturating fluid. We will present results from a study of a broad range of geomechanical problems that exercise the various components of LDEC in isolation and in tandem.
[24] Owen, D. R. J.,Feng, Y. T.,Labao, M. ,等.Fluid/structure coupling in fracturing solids and particulate media[J].Geomechanics and Geoengineering,2009,4 (1):27-37,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：The objective of the paper is to present the essential issues related to an effective computational implementation of a continuum/discontinuum formulation of rock masses under various loading conditions, including fluid interaction for three classes of problems;fluid flow through fracturing rock masses, rock blasting and the transport of large particles through a fluid medium. The applicability of the methodology developed is illustrated through a selection of practical examples.
[25] Morris, Joseph,Johnson, Scott .Dynamic simulations of geological materials using combined FEM/DEM/SPH analysis[J].Geomechanics and Geoengineering,2009,4 (1):91-101,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：An overview of the Lawrence Discrete Element Code (LDEC) is presented, and results from a study investigating the effect of explosive and impact loading on geological materials using the Livermore Distinct Element Code (LDEC) are detailed. LDEC was initially developed to simulate tunnels and other structures in jointed rock masses using large numbers of polyhedral blocks. Many geophysical applications, such as projectile penetration into rock, concrete targets and boulder fields, require a combination of continuum and discrete methods in order to predict the formation and interaction of the fragments produced. In an effort to model this class of problems, LDEC now includes implementations of Cosserat point theory and cohesive elements. This approach directly simulates the transition from continuum to discontinuum behaviour, thereby allowing for dynamic fracture within a combined finite element/discrete element framework. In addition, there are many applications involving geological materials where fluid-structure interaction is important. To facilitate solution of this class of problems a smooth particle hydrodynamics (SPH) capability has been incorporated into LDEC to simulate fully coupled systems involving geological materials and a saturating fluid. We will present results from a study of a broad range of geomechanical problems that exercise the various components of LDEC in isolation and in tandem.
[26] Chan, Dave,Tipthavonnukul, Siwa .Numerical simulation of granular particles movement in fluid flow[J].International Journal of Nonlinear Sciences and Numerical Simulation,2008,9 (3):229-248,FREUND PUBLISHING HOUSE LTD
摘要：A method to couple continuum and discontinuum flow has been developed to simulate granular particles movement in a flowing fluid. The movement of granular particles is modeled using the discrete element method, while the finite volume scheme is used to simulate fluid flow. The existence of particles in the flow region results in a reduction in the amount of fluid flow in that region. The flowing fluid is expected to induce drag forces on the particles which are computed based on the relative velocities between the fluid and the particles. Buoyant force on a particle is equal to the weight of the fluid displaced by the particle. All forces acting on each individual particle are summed in determining the particle movement. Examples are provided to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed method in simulating granular particles movement in a flowing fluid.
[27] Liu Xiaoyu,Liu Yang,Zhang Li ,等.Modelling of Hydro-mechanical Coupling for Fractured Rocks Using Continuum-based Discrete Element Method[M],2008
摘要：This paper aims to model the coupled hydro-mechanical behavior of fractured rocks. First of all,disk-shaped fractures are generated by applying stochastic approaches to capture uncertainty in the knowledge of fractures. Secondly, a block cutting technique and the successive space subdivision approach are developed to use the sequentially introduced disk-shaped fractures to cut through the study domain. As a result, a fracture-block system, which is an assemblage of discrete blocks interfaced by explicitly represented fractures, is constructed to represent a fractured rock. Thirdly, a continuum-based discrete element method, which encompasses the strong points of finite element method and discrete element method and offset those weaknesses, is proposed to model the mechanical behaviour of block system and fluid flow of fracture networks, respectively. A loose coupling algorithm is then applied to simulate the coupled fluid flow and mechanical deformation, in which two independent flow and mechanics simulators solve the mechanical and hydraulic equations, but output and input information is passed at designated time intervals in both directions between the two simulators.
[28] Owen, D. R. J.,Feng, Y. T.,Labao, M. ,等.Simulation of multi-fracturing rock media including fluid/structure coupling[M],2007,1 :457-+,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：The objective of the paper is to present the essential issues related to an effective computational implementation of a continuum/discontinuum formulation of rock masses under various loading conditions, including fluid interaction for two classes of problems;fluid flow through fracturing rock masses and rock blasting. The applicability of the methodology developed is illustrated through practical examples related to borehole breakout phenomena, hydraulic fracturing and the simulation of rock blasting operations.
[29] Bagheri, M.,Shafiezadeh, N.,Hajihassani, H. R. .Discontinuum and continuum modeling of Masjed E Soleyman Power House Cavern[M],2006,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：Numerical modelling is a useful tool to design underground openings. Masjed E Soleyman Power House Cavern is one of the largest caverns in the Middle East. Continuum and discontinuum analyses were performed to evaluate the stability of the cavern. Phase2D and UDEC softwares were used to analyse for continuum and discontinuum media respectively. The displacements obtained from continuum and discontinuum analyses were compared to those measured by Multiple Borehole Extensometers (MPBX).
[30] D. Stead,E. Eberhardt,J.S. Coggan .Developments in the characterization of complex rock slope deformation and failure using numerical modelling techniques[J].Engineering Geology,2006,83 (1-3):217-235,Elsevier Science
摘要：Recent advances in the characterization of complex rock slope deformation and failure using numerical techniques have demonstrated significant potential for furthering our understanding of both the mechanisms/processes involved and the associated risk. This paper illustrates how rock slope analyses may be undertaken using three levels of sophistication. Level I analyses include the conventional application of kinematic and limit equilibrium techniques with modifications to include probabilistic techniques, coupling of groundwater simulations and simplistic treatment of intact fracture and plastic yield. Such analyses are primarily suited to simple translational failures involving release on smooth basal, rear and lateral surfaces where the principle active damage mechanisms are progressive failure and/or asperity breakdown. Level II analyses involve the use of continuum and discontinuum numerical methods. In addition to simple translation, Level II techniques can be applied to complex translational rock slope deformations where step-path failure necessitates degradation and failure of intact rock bridges along basal, rear and lateral release surfaces. Active damage processes in this case comprise not only strength degradation along the release surface (e.g., asperity breakdown) but also a significant component of brittle intact rock fracture. Level III analyses involve the use of hybrid continuum-discontinuum codes with fracture simulation capabilities. These codes are applicable to a wide spectrum of rock slope failure modes, but are particularly well suited to complex translation/ rotational instabilities where failure requires internal yielding, brittle fracturing and shearing (in addition to strength degradation along release surfaces). Through a series of rock slope analyses the application of varied numerical methods are discussed. Particular emphasis is given to state-of-the-art developments and potential use of Level III hybrid techniques. © 2005 Elsevier B.
[31] Owen, D. R. J.,Feng, Y. T.,Lobao, M. ,等.Coupled fluid/structure modelling of multi-fracturing solids and particulate media[M],2006,SOUTH AFRICAN ASSOC COMPUTATIONAL & APPLIED MECHANICS-SAAM
摘要：Many industrial and scientific problems are characterised by a transformation from a continuum to a discontinuum state. In several applications of industrial relevance, the presence of an additional phase, either gaseous, liquid or both, often controls the behaviour of the system. Three examples of such interaction were investigated, namely (i) Fluid flow within fractured rock masses, (ii) Generation of gas pressure fields which drives the fracturing process in rock blasting and (iii) The transport of solid particles within a fluid medium, which occurs in both minerals recovery and food processing. The numerical model for the first example was validated against experimental data for elasic, elastoplastic and poroelastic cases, and good agreement was obtained between numerical and experimental data for the vertical stress profile. The numerical models derived for the second and third examples also yielded plausible solutions.
[32] Cheng, Y.M.,Zhang, Y.H. .Coupling of FEM and DDA methods[J].International Journal of Geomechanics,2002,2 (4):503-517,American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), United States
摘要：Problems governed by both continuum and discontinuum like tunnels and caverns are best analyzed by the coupling distinct element method and finite element or boundary element method. This article introduces a technique in coupling FEM and DDA;this technique has been applied to some examples to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed coupling method. © 2003 ASCE.
[33] Siwa Tipthavonnukul,Dave Chan,Geotechnical Special Publication No.117 .Numerical Simulation of Granular Particles Moving in Fluid Flow[M],2002,American Society of Civil Engineers
摘要：A coupled method between discontinuum and continuum approaches has been developed to simulate granular particles moving in a flowing fluid. The movement of granular particles is modeled using the discrete element method, while the finite volume scheme is used to simulate the fluid flow. The existence of granules in the flow region is assumed to cause a reduction in the amount of fluid flow in that region. The flowing fluid is expected to induce drag forces on the granules which are computed based on the relative velocities between the fluid and the particles. Buoyant forces on a particle are equal to the weight of the fluid displaced by the particle. All forces acting on each individual particle are summed in determining the particle movement. An example is given to illustrate the possibility of the proposed method in simulating granular particles moving in a flowing fluid. The problem of modeling wet granular flow requires the solution of two major physical problems; granular material as discontinua and fluid as continua. The discrete element method or DEM, proposed by Cundall and Strack (1979), conceives granular materials as the assemblage of distinct rigid particles. Particles can interact with each other or with a solid boundary only at contact points. By using the contact force-displacement law, the forces at the contact are related to the magnitude of the overlap between particles or between particle and a solid boundary. The displacements and velocities of each individual particle are calculated from the summation of all forces acting on the particle using Newton's Second Law of Motion. The movement histories of individual particles at each time-step are traced based on the force-displacement law and the Newton's Law. Various particle shapes can be used such as polygonal, elliptical, circular shape, etc. The circular shape is selected in this paper due to its simplicity.
[34] 郑榕明,张勇慧,王可钧 .耦合算法原理及有限元与DDA的耦合[J].岩土工程学报,2000,22 (6):727-730,中国科学院文献情报中心
摘要：岩土工程中常用的数值分析方法各有其优越性和局限性。对地质条件复杂 ,既有连续性又有非连续性的实际问题 ,为求得更好的结果 ,可采用多种数值方法耦合模拟。介绍了一些耦合算法的原理和编程方法 ,详述了有限元与DDA(不连续变形分析 )的耦合算法 ,并给出了计算实例 ,证明了耦合方法的优越性。
[35] Al-Zahrani, Rashed M. .A coupled discontinuous deformation analysis and boundary element method for two-dimensional elastostatic problems[D],2000
摘要：The use of numerical modeling techniques for dealing with continuum and discontinuum domains individually, has increased rapidly and proved valuable in the analysis of many engineering problems. Geotechnical engineering, by its very nature, often involves problems that are composed of both a continuum and discontinuum domains, and a coupling of two classes of numerical methods is desirable. This study aims at developing a methodology that couples two distinct modeling techniques, namely, the Discontinuous Deformation Analysis (DDA) and the Boundary Element Method (BEM) in solving two-dimensional elastostatics problems. DDA and BEM are used to model different portions of a problem domain under consideration. Specifically, the DDA is used to simulate the problem in the near field, whereas the BEM is used to model the far field. The two methods are to be coupled through the mechanical interaction along the interface. The DDA analyzes a region that is bounded by pre-existing discontinuities into individual blocks that obey certain kinematics constraints. The study adopts the updated Lagrangian formulation using the Green-Lagrange strain tensor and the second Piola-Kirchhoff stress tensor. The DDA model uses the coefficients of polynomial basis functions as the independent variables. Numerical examples together with simple physical experiments have been conducted to verify this DDA model. The BEM domain is assumed to be linearly elastic and homogeneous, and may be extended to the infinite or semi-infinite domain. The direct BEM approach is used in which the displacements and tractions for a given problem are solved directly in terms of each other. The formulation of the coupled work is implicit in nature; therefore, boundary element matrices are transformed into a stiffness matrix in order to be combined with the DDA. The contact constraints are implemented using the penalty method. The coupling formulation uses Coulomb's law to model the DDA-DDA and DDA-BEM interface be
[36] Hart, R,Fairhurst, C .Application of discontinuum modeling in geotechnical studies for nuclear waste isolation[M],2000,A A BALKEMA PUBLISHERS
摘要：Deep-underground isolation of nuclear waste presents geotechnical problems for which there is little if any practical experience upon which to draw. Heat generated by the buried waste introduces coupled thermal, mechanical, chemical and fluid flow processes related to the geological isolation. The very long isolation times involved further compound the issues. As a consequence, unprecedented reliance must be placed on predictive numerical modeling in the design of a nuclear waste repository. Numerical analysis in geo engineering has conventionally been based on a continuum hypothesis. The presence of joints, fractures and other discontinuities in a rock mass can significantly affect these processes and the degree of coupling. Recent advances in discontinuum analysis permit a more accurate representation of rock discontinuities in a gee-numerical model for a waste repository. This paper describes several studies in which discontinuum models have been used to improve the prediction of the repository performance and develop a better understanding of the response of the geological environment.
[37] SCHEURICH, H .PRINCIPLES OF QUATERNIONIC VACUUM THERMODYNAMICS AND A UNIFIED GRAVISTRONG INTERACTION-MODEL[J].Annalen der Physik,1987,44 (7):473-487,JOHANN AMBROSIUS BARTH VERLAG
摘要：The conceptions of the preceding paper [1] are completed by the discussion of first outlines of quaternionically originated vacuum thermodynamics. Thereby the algebraic Planck scale discontinuum statistically and approximately is extended by steps to affinely unconnected and to affinely connected Riemannian spacetime continuum. There results the concept of an irreversible particle realization process out of vacuum, as well as a vacuum foundation of the gauge principle and of the long-range coupling constants. The version of the Electroweak Standard Model derived from the simple-regular SO (3,3) representations is extended to a unified interaction model of gravitation and strong forces (gravistrong interaction model) derived from the double-regular SO (3,3) representations. An SO (3,3)-originated connection between the linear graviton field and the non-linear gravitation field is proposed. Grundlagen einer quaternionischen Vakuum-Thermodynamik und ein vereinigtes gravistarkes Wechselwirkungsmodell Der Entwurf der vorangegangenen Arbeit [1] wird ergänzt durch die Diskussion erster Grundlagen einer quaternionisch begründeten Vakuum-Thermodynamik. Durch sie wird das algebraische Diskontinuum mit Planck-Skala statistisch und näherungsweise erweitert zunächst zum affin unverknüpften und dann zum affin verknüpften Riemannschen Raum-Zeit-Kontinuum. Es ergibt sich das Konzept eines irreversiblen Teilchen-Realisierungsprozesses sowie eine Begründung des Eichprinzips und der Kopplungskonstanten langreichweitiger Kräfte aus der Vakuumstruktur. Die von den einfach-regulären SO (3,3)-Darstellungen abgeleitete Version des Elektroschwachen Standardmodells wird erweitert zu einem vereinigten Modell von Gravitation und starken Kräften (gravistarkes Modell), abgeleitet aus den doppelt-regulären SO (3,3)-Darstellungen. Eine SO (3,3)-Verbindung zwischen linearem Gravitonen- und nichtlinearem Gravitationsfeld wird vorgeschlagen.