[1] 邓英豪,夏阳,金衍 .基于扩展有限元的离散缝网渗流数值模拟方法[J].石油学报,2022,43 (10):1474-1486,Science Press
摘要：裂缝性储层具有强非均质性和多尺度特征，传统方法在离散裂缝群数值模拟中对网格设置有较高的要求，通常难以平衡计算效率和精度，在高效且精细模拟多尺度无序交叉裂缝渗流方面的局限性日益凸显。基于离散裂缝模型显示表征每一条裂缝，针对不同尺度裂缝构造基于渐近解析解的加强形函数，建立了一种裂缝和网格解耦的多尺度扩展有限单元法用于模拟无序交叉裂缝群的渗流特征。该方法利用渐近解析解捕捉网格内裂缝局部渗流特征，避免使用非结构网格在裂缝壁面和尖端的局部加密，因此能有效降低计算量，提高计算精度。建立了单裂缝模型和大规模裂隙群模型用于模拟，新方法相较于传统有限单元法将裂缝壁面法向流速的计算精度提高80%以上；在采用粗网格模拟大规模裂隙群时，在计算量(网格数和结点数)降低约90%的情况下，单井产量误差保持在仅约5%,验证了新方法的准确性和有效性。新方法为裂缝性油气藏流体流动模拟以及后续解决两相流、流固耦合、裂缝扩展等一系列复杂问题提供了一种新的思路和方法。
[2] 黄福有,张路青,周剑 ,等.落石冲击作用下棚洞垫层动力响应的颗粒级配效应耦合数值模拟研究[J].岩石力学与工程学报,2023,42 (2):413-428
摘要：落石冲击垫层的动态冲击力与冲击深度是棚洞结构设计的重要依据。级配作为垫层颗粒粒度分布的重要特征，决定了垫层各级粒径颗粒的分配情况，影响了落石冲击垫层的动态过程。为研究颗粒级配对落石冲击垫层动态响应的影响，采用离散元–有限差分耦合方法，其中离散元模拟颗粒垫层，有限差分法模拟棚洞混凝土结构。在垫层平均粒径相等的情况下，开展了落石冲击不同级配垫层的动力响应数值模拟研究，通过对落石冲击力、顶板中心压应力、落石冲击深度的分析，揭示了落石冲击颗粒垫层的动态响应机制。研究结果表明：颗粒间力链的稳定性决定了垫层受冲击后的动态响应特征；颗粒间的摩擦是冲击能量耗散的主要方式，耗能占比达70%～80%；对于单峰型级配，单峰对应的粒径越小，力链长度越长，稳定性越差。峰值粒径d_t=75 mm时的峰值冲击力为d_t=25 mm的1.9倍，顶板峰值压应力为其3.6倍；对于双峰型级配，双峰的距离越近，颗粒周围约束的数量越少，力链的稳定性越差。非均质系数He=0.65时的峰值冲击力比He=0.33时的大40%，顶板峰值压应力大30%，粒径分布的离散性决定垫层受冲击后的响应特征。
[3] 黄戡,孙逸玮,陈湘生 ,等.基于FDM-DEM耦合的盾构开挖面前方土体三维位移特性研究[J].中国公路学报,2023,36 (6):190-206
摘要：盾构隧道施工本质上是在三维空间中利用机械实现动态掘进的过程。为了研究盾构施工对开挖面前方土体的位移影响,基于有限差分法(FDM)与离散单元法(DEM)开展了多组三维连续-离散耦合数值计算,并结合现场监测,提出相应的施工建议。首先,基于弹性力学的Mindlin解,综合考虑盾构顶推力、辐条式刀盘摩阻力和盾壳摩擦力对土体位移的共同作用;基于三维镜像法和球孔收缩问题推导了地层损失引起的三维土体位移场表达式,建立了开挖面前方土体三维位移完整解析公式;其次,为了同时满足工程分析尺度和反映土体细观力学特性需要,引入新版连续-离散耦合技术。依托工程实例,通过三维单剪模拟试验与室内直剪试验对离散域内的颗粒细观参数进行验证。最后,基于三维位移解析解和连续-离散耦合模型分析了开挖面前方土体位移特性及不同盾构顶推力、刀盘转速和推进速度下的三维土体位移特征。结果表明:三维位移解析解和连续-离散耦合的计算结果均与实测值匹配程度较好;在盾构掘进过程中,地表沉降量逐步增大,盾构开挖面通过后沉降量得到暂时控制;顶推力过大容易使开挖面前方H/4~5H/4范围内地表出现局部隆起现象;刀盘转速的提高会加大地表沉降量,使沉降槽的非对称性更加显著;同一地层中保持单位出土量不变时,盾构推进速度会影响前方土体沿隧道掘进方向和水平侧向的位移量;开挖面前方土体与盾尾后方土体在水平侧向上具有相反的位移趋势,工程中可根据前方土体位移特性动态调整盾尾注浆量。所提三维位移解析解与耦合计算方法可为预测盾构开挖面前方土体位移提供重要参考。
[4] 李震,李金达,沙潜毅 ,等.基于离散元-有限元耦合生物质成型模具寿命分析[J].锻压技术,2022,47 (8):171-177
摘要：以沙柳细枝颗粒为生产原料,对环模成型机进行综合分析,并根据环模成型机的实际攫取物料工况,建立环模成型机的动力学仿真模型和物料离散元模型,利用ADAMS与EDEM对沙柳细枝颗粒的攫取过程进行DEM-MBD联合仿真,解决单一软件EDEM仿真压辊不能依靠摩擦力转动的问题,使仿真结果更加接近实际情况,并对仿真结果进行分析。结果表明:当环模转速为3~5 r·s^(-1)时,颗粒所受最大压力随着环模转速的增加而增加,而当环模转速增大至5 r·s^(-1)后,颗粒所受最大压力随着环模转速的增加而减小。将离散元与有限元进行耦合,对环模成型机的应力和变形进行分析,结果表明:环模和压辊的最大变形量分别为0.550760和0.42516 mm,最大等效应力分别为79.0710和32.6810 MPa,均发生在环模与压辊的最小间隙处。使用Ncode Designlife疲劳分析软件分析环模和压辊的疲劳寿命云图,结果表明环模较压辊更容易发生疲劳破坏。
[5] Liang, Shaomin,Ji, Shunying .DEM-FEM Coupling Analysis of Safe Landing of Reentry Capsule Considering Landing Attitude and Rebound Response[J].Journal of Aerospace Engineering,2021,34 (4),ASCE-AMER SOC CIVIL ENGINEERS
摘要：This paper discusses the safe landing process of a reentry capsule in detail with respect to landing attitude and rebound response. First, the discrete-element method (DEM) of the land soil and the finite-element method (FEM) of the reentry capsule structure are established. The dynamic response of the reentry capsule landing are analyzed using the DEM-FEM coupling algorithm and then compared with the results obtained from experiment and LS-DYNA. Second, the effects of the landing velocity and attitude on the landing process are discussed. Finally, the effects of mass and friction coefficient between particles on the rebound response of the reentry capsule are analyzed. The study shows that soil particles contribute to the absorption of the impact energy of the reentry capsule. The inclined landing is more conducive to the safe landing of the reentry capsule. The rebound velocity of the reentry capsule is relatively smaller when the friction coefficient between the particles is smaller and the mass of the reentry capsule is larger.
[6] 秦立科,王佳浩,陈国栋 ,等.基于有限元离散元耦合微波剔选粗骨料研究[J].公路,2022,67 (8):326-333
摘要：采用有限元—离散元耦合方法模拟不同功率条件下微波剔选粗骨料过程,根据界面破坏程度提出将剔选率作为剔选效果定量评价指标,研究温度、裂纹及剔选率随能量消耗演化发展规律,选择最佳照射参数。研究结果表明,砂浆温度高于粗骨料,位于微波发射口下方的砂浆温度最高,随着能量消耗增加,温度最低处从底部砂浆移至粗骨料中;相同能量消耗条件下,微波功率越高,温差越大,温度分布变化越急剧;不同功率条件下,剔选率随着时间增长,剔选过程可以分为开始增长、快速增长和缓慢增长3个阶段;最终剔选率均在60%~70%。剔选率达到60%对应时间为最佳照射时间,超过该时间后,剔选率增加较小;剔选率达到60%消耗的能量随着功率升高先降低后增加,微波剔选粗骨料存在最优功率,本文中模型最优功率为4 kW。
[7] 黎旭,严颖,季顺迎 .考虑道砟侵切土质路基的有砟轨道离散元-有限元耦合方法[J].固体力学学报,2021,42 (4):407-419
摘要：论文考虑有砟轨道道床结构中底层道砟颗粒会逐渐侵切土质路基上表层的实际情况,引入基于双曲线函数的土阻力公式,发展了离散元颗粒与有限元网格体内耦合的接触力算法,建立了考虑道砟颗粒侵切路基表层的有砟轨道离散元-有限元耦合模型.其中道床中的非规则形状道砟采用离散元镶嵌单元构造,路基采用有限元20节点六面体实体单元构造.分析了道砟侵切路基下列车荷载及路基软硬程度对道床整体沉降的影响,绘制了有砟道床-路基的横截面应力及位移云图.研究表明提出的耦合模型不仅能反映道床自身的弹性变形和累积塑性变形,还能真实反映底层道砟侵切软土路基表层所导致的侵切沉降,为深入了解有砟道床的沉降劣化机理提供重要借鉴作用.
[8] 姜杨,俞经虎,钱善华 .基于离散元的种植体力学性能研究[J].计算机仿真,2022,39 (9):282-287
摘要：种植技术是目前牙列缺失患者的首选方案,但对于种植体的力学性能研究仍缺少具体的研究。针对咀嚼过程中种植牙模型的应力分布情况,采用EDEM离散元软件与ANSYS Workbench有限元软件联合仿真的方法获得牙冠表面受力数据,通过质构仪压缩试验获取大豆破碎力,对仿真值进行修正,将修正值作为有限元输入条件分析种植牙的受力情况。研究结果表明,牙冠的应力最大值集中在牙尖处;种植体的应力分布集中在颈部区域;骨组织部分皮质骨比松质骨承受更大的应力。研究结果可以为种植体的结构设计提供参考。
[9] Wang, Zhiliang,Yu, Langlang .Analysis on true triaxial mechanical properties of deep marble by using a discrete element-finite difference coupling method[J].爆炸与冲击,2024,44 (7),Explosion and Shock Waves
摘要：To study the dynamic mechanical properties of deep marble, the micro parameters of deep marble were calibrated based on the coupling method of discrete element (particle flow code, PFC) and finite difference (fast Lagrangian analysis of continua, FLAC). Then, the dynamic stress equilibrium condition and uniformity assumption in the simulated three-dimensional split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) test are numerically validated. Finally, an in-depth analysis is conducted on the stress-strain response, fracture characteristics, and energy evolution mechanism of marble under true triaxial stress environment. It is found that the numerical results of the true triaxial SHPB test based on the PFC-FLAC coupling theory satisfy the assumption of stress uniformity, and the simulated stress-strain curves are highly consistent with the measured ones. Peak stress and peak strain decrease with the increase of pre-pressure in the impact direction (axial pressure hereafter). At the same axial pressure, the peak stress gradually drops down with the increase of incident stress;when the incident stress is fixed, the axial pressure weakens the peak stress of the sample, while the lateral pressure perpendicular to the impact direction increases the compressive strength. During the loading process, the outbreak period of acoustic emission events generally occurs in the post-peak stage, and during this stage, a relatively obvious macroscopic fracture zone is formed within the sample. Under a true triaxial dynamic compression, the samples are mainly characterized by tensile cracks, accounting for over 80% of the total number of cracks. The sample undergoes energy changes from loading to failure. At the peak stress point, the strain energy storage reaches its limit, which is then transformed into an energy form dominated by dissipated energy and supplemented by particle kinetic energy. The relevant conclusions have important guiding significance for the study of the dynamic characteristics of
[10] 付君健,彭铁川,李然 ,等.考虑刚度和质量耦合效应的结构弹性成像方法[J].力学学报,2023,55 (9):1971-1982
摘要：弹性成像是一种医学影像技术,可以把生物体组织的弹性模量信息转换为可视化图像.为了将弹性成像用于机械结构的损伤识别,实现机械结构缺损、夹杂、结冰和积水多种损伤类型的全局识别,提出一种考虑刚度和质量耦合效应的结构弹性成像方法.弹性模量仅能反映结构刚度变化,单一的弹性模量不足以表征多种损伤类型,因而还需引入能反映结构质量变化的参数.受结构拓扑优化理论启发,以结构离散单元的弹性模量系数和材料密度系数作为成像参数,将成像参数与弹性模量和材料密度关联,构建考虑结构刚度和质量耦合效应的损伤表征.基于无阻尼自由振动系统的有限元模型,构建损伤表征、力学模型和特征值响应之间的映射关系.以数字模型和真实结构模型的特征值响应变化率的平方和为目标函数,以有限元平衡方程和成像参数上下限为约束条件,建立基于特征值响应的结构弹性成像模型,推导弹性成像目标函数关于成像参数的导数,采用基于梯度的优化算法求解弹性成像模型.数值算例表明,针对结构缺损、夹杂、结冰、积水等损伤,该方法无需先验信息,可有效实现结构损伤位置、数量和形状的精确量化,并通过三维结构弹性成像算例验证了该方法的通用性.
[11] 王胤,杨涵,庞子毅 ,等.基于CFD-DEM流固耦合方法的吸力锚基础负压沉贯数值模拟[J].岩土工程学报,2023,45 (2):384-393,F0004
摘要：吸力锚基础作为一种新型高效的海洋结构物基础形式在海洋工程中得到了广泛应用。对于砂土中的吸力锚沉贯研究,传统试验或有限元数值模拟存在一定局限性。采用基于离散单元法与计算流体动力学理论(CFD-DEM)流固耦合方法对吸力锚在砂土中的吸力贯入过程进行数值模拟分析;通过与室内物理模型试验、沉贯阻力理论解析计算结果进行对比分析,验证CFD-DEM流固耦合方法的有效性和准确性。进一步地,从土颗粒细观尺度上深入分析吸力锚在砂土中沉贯特性。数值模拟捕捉到贯入过程中锚内土塞和砂层变化现象,发现砂层呈现出中间向上凸起的弧状分布,说明贯入产生挤土效应,其造成的土体位移和膨胀也是土塞产生的原因。同时模拟得到贯入过程中的超孔隙水压力等势线分布变化情况和锚内砂层水力梯度的变化情况,证实了砂土中吸力贯入的“安全机制”。最后将数值所得的锚外负压比变化与Houlsby和Byrne理论模型计算结果进行对比,得到锚内土体渗透系数随沉贯的变化规律。通过本研究验证,采用离散元法结合计算流体动力学理论有效地模拟和捕捉吸力锚沉贯过程中的细观土水相互作用、宏观土体变形及渗流场分布等现象,该方法可作为吸力锚沉贯特性研究的一种有效手段。
[12] Ye, Fangping,Qiang, Yuezhang,Jiang, Weijie ,等.DEM-FEM Coupling Simulation of the Transfer Chute Wear with the Dynamic Calibration DEM Parameters[J].Processes,2021,9 (10),MDPI
摘要：Transfer chutes for bulk material conveying systems have significant importance in ship loading and unloading and are 'worn' from large mass flow and fast granular material flow conditions. In this investigation, the impact forces of different granular materials on the transfer chute wear process are considered;the DEM-FEM (Discrete Element Method-Finite Element Method) coupling method was used to calculate the wear and the deformation of the transfer chute. The stress-strain and cumulative contact energy from three different granular materials were analyzed under different working conditions. The results show that the wear, stress-strain, and cumulative contact energy of the transfer chute are closely related to the belt speed, the chute inclination angle, and the types of granular materials;the impact force and the stress-strain on the transfer chute achieves maximum value under a 4 m/s belt speed condition;meanwhile, with the increase of belt speed by 0.5 m/s, the wear of the transfer chute increases 25% and the deformation increases 20%;the shape variable, wear area, and normal cumulative contact capacity of the transfer chute are the smallest with a transfer chute inclination angle from 40 degrees to 45 degrees.
[13] Shunying Ji,Shaomin Liang .DEM-FEM-MBD coupling analysis of landing process of lunar lander considering landing mode and buffering mechanism[J].Advances in Space Research,2021,68 (3):1627-1643,Elsevier Science
摘要：The safe lander dynamics is an important part of the lunar landing mission. In this paper, a discrete element method (DEM) for lunar soil is set up, and the finite element method (FEM) for the lander is set up by shell elements and beam elements. The lander is regarded as a multibody system composed of a cabin, legs and footpads, and its motion characteristics are solved by multibody dynamics (MBD). A DEM-FEM-MBD coupling algorithm is developed to simulate the landing process of the lander considering landing mode and buffer mechanism, whose correctness is verified by comparison with a full-scale experiment involving lunar lander on earth. The effects of the mass, landing velocity and attitude of the lander on the safe landing are discussed. The buffering mechanism and influencing factors of lunar soil are analyzed. The results show that the impact force peak and impact depth gradually increase with the increase in the landing velocity and mass of the lander. Two kinds of inclined landing modes are defined and compared with vertical landing. It is found that the force on the landing leg that first contacts the lunar soil is significantly greater than that on the landing leg, that contacts later. The impact force peak on the lander under the two inclined landing modes is similar, but the impact depth of the 1-2-1 mode is significantly greater than that of the 2-2 mode. In the process of landing, lunar soil has the function of buffering dissipation. The energy dissipation rate is affected by the physical characteristics of lunar soil and the mechanical energy of the lander. © 2021
[14] 邵帅,吕泉江,纪丹阳 ,等.针对有砟道床动力特性分析的嵌入式离散元-有限元耦合方法[J].计算力学学报,2021,38 (2):180-187
摘要：在离散元-有限元耦合方法中,离散元和有限元交界面处的耦合方式对整体有砟道床的力学行为影响显著。采用基于球形单元的镶嵌单元或粘结单元模拟有砟道床时,由于球形单元和有限单元表面的自锁能力较差,使道砟层在列车载荷作用下容易产生侧向滑移,导致数值模型不稳定。此外,在实际铁路道床中,底部道砟均不同程度地嵌入路堤。为此,发展了一种嵌入式离散元-有限元耦合方法,通过设置一层嵌入地基有限元模型中的球形颗粒传递离散元域和有限元域间的力学参数,实现离散元和有限元方法的耦合。数值结果表明,嵌入式离散元-有限元耦合模型能够有效降低有砟道床的侧向位移,数值结果更加稳定,在处理与有砟道床类似的连续介质与散体介质的耦合问题时推荐采用嵌入式耦合算法。
[15] 张少健 .基于多场耦合的重载矿用自卸车货箱仿真分析与优化[J].工程机械,2022,53 (9):105-109,I0017
摘要：通过多体动力学软件、液压系统软件、离散元软件及有限元软件对载重300 t级重型矿用电传动自卸车货箱轻量化后结构开展多学科多场耦合分析,得到不同工况下货箱结构的应力分布,根据模态分析结果展开针对性优化,优化后分析结果表明,货箱强度、刚度、模态和振型满足相关标准要求,提升了货箱结构的可靠性,满足了其复杂工况下的使用要求。
[16] 肖望强,曾玉梅,张新宇 ,等.基于有限元—离散元耦合的粒子阻尼减振研究[J].宇航总体技术,2022,6 (6):1-8
摘要：在侧挂构型发射任务中,中心承力筒与卫星直接连接,其动力学特性对卫星的振动响应有直接影响。首先分析中心承力筒的模态特性,据此完成粒子阻尼器的结构参数设计。随后,使用有限元--离散元耦合仿真方法,确定了阻尼器填充粒子的最佳直径和阻尼器最佳安装位置。仿真结果表明,该方案下星箭界面减振效果可达40%。最后,使用最优粒子阻尼参数开展水平激励实验。实验结果表明,与未安装粒子阻尼器相比,中心承力筒+粒子阻尼器组合体的减振效果可达35%以上,与仿真结果一致。
[17] 张玲,徐泽宇,赵明华 ,等.基于DEM-FDM耦合的筋箍碎石桩承载变形特性研究[J].铁道学报,2022,44 (11):95-104
摘要：采用离散元-有限差分耦合数值方法研究筋箍碎石桩承载变形特性。基于离散元法对碎石桩建模,可从细观上揭示碎石颗粒相互作用和荷载传递机理,耦合有限差分连续介质模型能提高计算效率且更好地反映复合地基应力应变特性。数值模型分析了加筋长度、黏土抗剪强度对荷载-沉降特征、桩周土侧向变形、桩体应力和接触力链的影响。结果表明:最优加筋深度的选择应考虑工程的允许沉降、土体强度等因素,对于允许沉降较小的工程,在满足地基承载力和沉降要求的前提下,可优先选用顶部筋箍碎石桩,对于可能产生较大沉降的地基,宜采用全长加筋;对于强度较高的软土地基,应考虑充分发挥桩周土侧向约束效应以及筋材环箍效应,可优先选用顶部筋箍碎石桩。
[18] Xu Hou,Weinan Wang,Jiahao Pan ,等.Optimization of flip-flow screen plate based on DEM-FEM coupling model and screening performance of fine minerals[J].Minerals Engineering,2024,211 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Flip-flow screen has unique advantages in dry deep screening of sticky and wet fine minerals. However, during the flip-flow screening process, the continuous collision of mineral materials causes the actual motion state of the screen plate to differ significantly from the ideal state. Clarifying the actual motion changes and stress characteristics of the flip-flow screen plate under the combined action of its own relaxation and tension motions and particle swarm collision is the basis for optimizing the structure of the flip-flow screen plate and the prerequisite for improving screening efficiency. Therefore, this study constructed a coupling simulation calculation model for the flip-flow screening system and explored the kinematic changes and stress distribution characteristics of the flip-flow screen plate under continuous impact of particle swarm. Furthermore, the influence of particle mass flow rate on the displacement and impact stress of the flip-flow screen plate was elucidated. Regarding the mesh structure, the stress changes of various parts of the mesh were revealed, and an optimization plan for the mesh structure was proposed through comparative experiments. Finally, the 1 mm dry screening experiment of fine coal was conducted on a semi-industrial flip-flow screen to verify the screening effect of the optimized screen plate. The results showed that when the processing capacity was 4.5 t/(h·m<sup>2</sup>) and the screen plate length was 1.8 m, the screening efficiency could reach 81.73 %, which is about 15 % higher than before the optimizing the screen plate. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[19] Sautter, Klaus Bernd,Hofmann, Helene,Wendeler, Corinna ,等.Advanced Modeling and Simulation of Rockfall Attenuator Barriers Via Partitioned DEM-FEM Coupling[J].Frontiers in Built Environment,2021,7 ,FRONTIERS MEDIA SA
摘要：Attenuator barriers, in contrast to conventional safety nets, tend to smoothly guide impacting rocks instead of absorbing large amounts of strain energy arresting them. It has been shown that the rock's rotation plays an important role in the bearing capacity of these systems. Although experimental tests have to be conducted to gain a detailed insight into the behavior of both the structures and the rock itself, these tests are usually costly, time-consuming, and offer limited generalizability to other structure/environment combinations. Thus, in order to support the engineer's design decision, reinforce test results and confidently predict barrier performance beyond experimental configurations this work describes an appropriate numerical modeling and simulation method of this coupled problem. For this purpose, the Discrete Element Method (DEM) and the Finite Element Method (FEM) are coupled in an open-source multi-physics code. In order to flexibly model rocks of any shape, sphere clusters are used which employ simple and efficient contact algorithms despite arbitrarily complicated shapes. A general summary of the FEM formulation is presented as well as detailed derivations of finite elements particularly pertinent to rockfall simulations. The presented modeling and coupling method is validated against experimental testing conducted by the company Geobrugg. Good agreement is achieved between the simulated and experimental results, demonstrating the successful practical application of the proposed method.
[20] 曹秒艳,胡晗,田少杰 ,等.抛物线壳体软模成形FEM-DEM耦合仿真研究[J].机械工程学报,2020,56 (20):38-46
摘要：针对一些形状复杂、具有局部特征的难变形薄壁构件的成形问题,提出固体颗粒介质成形(Solid granules medium forming,SGMF)技术。并以薄壁的抛物线壳体零件为例,分析零件的特征及成形难点;基于ABAQUS平台,自行编制程序对抛物线壳体SGMF成形过程进行有限元法(Finite element method,FEM)和离散元法(Discrete element method,DEM)耦合仿真分析,探究不同摩擦因数对工件SGMF的影响。研究表明,FEM-DEM耦合分析技术兼顾离散颗粒介质与连续体板材各自的变形特点,能较准确模拟金属板材SGMF成形过程,并采用该耦合分析技术确定该抛物线壳体零件的最佳成形工艺参数;最后在模拟结果的基础上,开展抛物线壳体零件的颗粒介质成形试验研究,并成功试制出合格工件,试验结果与FEM-DEM耦合模拟结果基本吻合。
[21] 汪优,高天涯,闫斌 ,等.基于DEM-FDM耦合的过渡段膨胀诱发钢轨上拱研究[J].铁道工程学报,2024,41 (1):7-12
摘要：研究目的:为分析涵洞过渡段地基膨胀引起的钢轨上拱响应,基于现场测试、室内膨胀试验数据,开展DEM-FDM耦合数值模拟,分析某涵洞附近路基土在膨胀范围为16 m,膨胀中心距离涵洞中心分别为0 m、5 m、10 m这三种工况下,不同膨胀率时基床填料的运动规律及钢轨的上拱响应。研究结论:(1)涵洞对于钢轨上拱位移的传递存在阻断作用,但会增大钢轨上拱的峰值,原位膨胀率下工况二的钢轨上拱峰值达到46 mm,当路基膨胀率为0.3%时钢轨上拱位移量达到无砟轨道钢轨可调节临界值(4mm);(2)过渡段钢轨上拱处同时产生轴向应力集中,其中原位膨胀率下工况二轴向应力峰值达到14.4 MPa;(3)对于膨胀区域位于涵洞下方的工况,钢轨轴向应力呈现出来的分布规律为钢轨上拱拱顶处为主拉应力状态,拱脚处为主压应力状态,因此一共包括三个压应力峰值点以及两个拉应力峰值点;(4)本文研究可为高铁涵洞过渡段路基膨胀病害解决方案的确定提供理论依据。
[22] Cheng, Xiaoman,Cheng, Shusen .Numerical simulation of the stress and deformation of the chute during the charging process of blast furnace by coupling finite element and discrete element[J].冶金研究与技术(原冶金评论),2023,120 (6),EDP SCIENCES S A
摘要：The chute is one of the most important parts of the blast furnace. The chute operates in a harsh environment and is continuously subjected to high temperature gas and particles. In this paper, for the working environment of chute, numerical simulation method is adopted to analyze the stress and deformation of the chute in the idle stage and the burden stage respectively. The results of the calculations are as follows: during the idle stage, the stress in the lower part of the chute are higher, with a maximum equivalent stress of 267 MPa. The lengthwise displacement of the chute outlet is the largest, with a value of 19.4 mm;the outlet sidewalls extend to both sides. The distribution of stress and deformation in the burden stage is similar to that in the idle stage, mainly affecting the inner wall of the chute. The temperature distribution and charge particles have a huge influence on the chute stress and deformation distribution. The research holds immense significance in enhancing the service life of the chute, refining its structural process, and ensuring the stable of the blast furnace.
[23] Atrian, Amir,Lund, Jorrid,Radtke, Lars ,等.A Partitioned Scheme for Coupling of FEM and DEM Simulations of Granular Materials[M].Proceedings in Applied Mathematics and Mechanics,2021,21 (1),John Wiley and Sons Inc
摘要：In this contribution, a simple uniaxial compaction of granular materials is considered in preparation for studying the collision behavior of double-hull vessels filled with granular materials. The top compressing plate is deformable and modeled by the finite element method (FEM). The particles modeled using the discrete element method (DEM) are compressed by the top plate. To this end, a partitioned technique to couple the continuum approach (FEM) and particle discretization (DEM) is presented. Full agreement of the computed reaction force in DEM with the pressure applied on the top plate in FEM implies accuracy of the used coupling technique. © 2021 The Authors. Proceedings in Applied Mathematics & Mechanics published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.
[24] Yanfeng Zheng,Yiyang Su,Siyuan Li ,等.Corrigendum to “Analysis approach for coupling between membrane structures and granular systems combining finite particle method (FPM) and discrete element method (DEM)” [Eng Struct 343 (2025) 121014][J].Engineering Structures,2025,343 ,Elsevier Science
[25] 王建,刘皓,赵亚风 ,等.复合固体推进剂双螺杆挤出成型过程DEM-CFD耦合仿真[J].含能材料,2022,30 (2):138-145
摘要：复合固体推进剂含有固体颗粒较多,传统的有限元分析方法难以准确实现复合固体推进剂在双螺杆挤出过程的仿真模拟。离散单元法(DEM)与计算流体力学(CFD)耦合是一种适合复合固体推进剂生产过程仿真的有效方法,但实现难度很大。基于标定的接触模型参数通过DEM实现了以铝粉和高氯酸铵为主要组分的固体推进剂固体颗粒在双螺杆挤出输送过程的模拟,利用测得液相黏度模型参数通过DEM-CFD耦合计算实现了固体推进剂固体颗粒与液相在双螺杆挤出过程的耦合仿真。结果表明,通过DEM计算得到的固体推进剂固体颗粒在双螺杆中的输送与实验规律相符;对比DEM-CFD耦合仿真与DEM中固体颗粒仿真结果,可见加入了液相的DEM-CFD耦合仿真物料流动性比未添加液相的DEM固体颗粒更好,物料在螺杆输送段的填充率从20%提升到40%,固体颗粒平均输送速度提升150%,螺杆的受力变化不大。
[26] Yan, Chengzeng,Wang, Tie,Gao, Yakun ,等.A Three-Dimensional Grouting Model Considering Hydromechanical Coupling Based on the Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method[J].International Journal of Geomechanics,2022,22 (11),ASCE-AMER SOC CIVIL ENGINEERS
摘要：In this paper, we present a three-dimensional (3D) grouting model based on the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). The 3D grouting model discretizes the problem domain into tetrahedral elements and joint elements, and the grout flows only in the broken joint elements, which satisfies the planar Poiseuille flow. By combining grout migration, FDEM mechanical cracking computation, and stress-induced fracture aperture variation in a graphics processing unit (GPU) parallel multiphysics FDEM software, called MultiFracS, the 3D grouting model can model rock cracking and the effect of hydromechanical (HM) coupling. First, a grouting example with analytical solutions is presented to validate the 3D grouting model. Then, we investigate the influence of several key parameters on grout penetration in fractured rock masses. The results reveal that the 3D grouting model can model grout migration, pressure distribution, grout-rock mass interaction, rock deformation, and crack initiation and propagation. Finally, the evolution of fracture geometry induced by grouting under different in situ stresses is studied. The numerical results present high coincidence with the in situ experimental results, demonstrating that the 3D grouting model is effective in dealing with fracture grouting.
[27] Sautter, Klaus B.,Hofmann, Helene,Wendeler, Corinna ,等.COUPLING THE DISCRETE ELEMENT METHOD WITH THE FINITE ELEMENT METHOD TO SIMULATE ROCKFALL IMPACT EXPERIMENTS[M],2021,International Center for Numerical Methods in Engineering
摘要：To numerically simulate rockfall impact on flexible protection structures two different numerical methods are coupled within the open-source multi-physics code KRATOS. The impacting object is modeled with the help of a cluster of spherical discrete elements and its movement and contact forces are simulated using the Discrete Element Method (DEM). To realize a partitioned coupling simulation the contact forces are subsequently transferred to the light-weight protection structure which is analyzed and simulated using the Finite Element Method (FEM). To allow a stable simulation even in the case of large contact forces and/or large time steps a strong coupling GaussSeidel algorithm is presented. Subsequently the applicability of the method is shown by calculating experiments and finally the inclusion of digital terrain data is demonstrated. © 2021 9th International Conference on Computational Methods for Coupled Problems in Science and Engineering, COUPLED PROBLEMS 2021. All rights reserved.
[28] 王雪平,丁明轩,黄杰 ,等.风力发电结构有限元建模及其地震响应分析[J].兰州理工大学学报,2022,48 (5):134-141
摘要：为研究不同精细程度的风力发电结构有限元模型在不同分析目的下的适用性,基于2MW三桨叶水平轴风力发电机,采用有限元软件ANSYS建立七种不同精细程度的风力发电结构有限元模型,以风力发电结构地震响应分析为例,得到各模型的响应结果,分别从变形、内力、应力以及应力集中四个方面分析各个模型的计算结果.研究结果表明:在计算风力发电结构的变形时,由于上部机舱及叶片对其影响较小,采用低阶单元即可得到较好的模拟结果;在计算塔底截面剪力和截面弯矩时,考虑机舱及叶片的有限元模型得到的结果较为精确,单元选择时需采用高阶实体单元;不考虑叶片、轮毂以及机舱得到的塔筒截面应力离散性较大,采用壳单元可较好地模拟塔筒截面应力;叶片、机舱等上部结构对门洞局部产生的应力集中影响较大,在计算时建议应用塔筒采用壳单元、门洞局部采用实体单元的多尺度模型进行模拟.
[29] Dianyin Hu,Tengyue Tian,Xin Wang ,等.Surface hardening analysis for shot peened GH4720Li superalloy using a DEM-FEM coupling RV simulation method[J].International Journal of Mechanical Sciences,2021,209 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A systematic study was performed to analyze the surface hardening of shot-peened GH4720Li superalloy by combining experiments and numerical simulations. Firstly, it was proved that fine grain strengthening (FGS) and work hardening (WH) are two main strengthening mechanisms of the hardened layer for the plate specimen after shot peening (SP). Then, in order to improve the simulation efficiency, a coupled discrete element method-finite element method model (DEM-FEM) was integrated into the representative volume model to obtain strength distribution quantitatively. The simulation of grain refinement was realized through the dislocation density evolution equation and the degree of WH was characterized by the equivalent plastic strain. Motived by the Vickers hardness test principle, a novel expression between strength and hardness was finally deduced considering both WH and FGS mechanisms, based on which the hardness distribution was evaluated after SP treatment. The hardness by the numerical framework revealed a good agreement with the experimental observations. © 2021 Elsevier Ltd
[30] Wu, Genshang,Shao, Jinggan,He, Zhanshu ,等.DEM-FEM coupling analysis of shot's energy distribution and target's residual stress of pneumatic shot peening[J].Materials Research Express,2023,10 (9):096505-096505,IOP Publishing Ltd
摘要：Pneumatic shot peening is a widely used surface strengthening method. During the peening process, shots often collide with each other, resulting in large energy loss and small compressive residual stress. In order to achieve the optimum compressive residual stress with as little energy loss as possible, firstly the collision mechanism of shots and the forming and coupling mechanism of the target's residual stress are revealed, and then pneumatic shot peening is simulated by using DEM-FEM coupling model. Then, the effects of impact angle & theta;, initial shot velocity v 0, shot diameter d p, and mass flow rate r m on the percentage & eta;of shots with different ratios of the impact velocity to initial shot velocity v m/v 0, the energy loss (EL), the energy transferred from shots to the target (ET), the residual energy (ER) and the compressive residual stress (RS) are investigated. The results show that as many random shots successively impact the target, the RS field induced by each shot couples with some adjacent RS fields induced by other shots, so that disperse RS fields are gradually transformed into a continuous RS layer with the compressive RS in the surface and the tensile RS in the subsurface. With the increase of & theta;and r m and with the decrease of v 0 and d p, the collision probability of shots increases, so EL also increases and & eta;of shots with a large v m/v 0 decreases. While, ET increases with the increase of v 0 and d p, decreases with the increase of r m, and first increases and then decreases with the increase of & theta;. ET does not entirely determine but greatly affects the compressive RS field. So, the surface compressive RS and the maximum compressive RS first increase and then decrease with the increase of & theta;and r m, while the two parameters increase with the increase of v 0 and d p. The optimum parameters of shots are & theta;= 75 & DEG;, v 0 = 60 m s-1, d p = 0.25 mm and r m = 2 kg min-1, in which ET reaches 45%, the surface co
[31] Zhang, Ke,Zhang, Shuo,Yu, Wenda ,等.Numerical Simulation Analysis of Screw Based on Discrete Element-Finite Element Coupling Simulation[J].沈阳建筑大学学报（自然科学版）,2021,37 (4):746-752,Editorial Department of Journal of Shenyang Jianzhu University (Natural Sciences)
摘要：The purpose of this paper is to study the force of the screw pushing aggregate in the multi-screw dispenser, and to give the screw optimization advice for the problem that the screw is easy to damage and *** research method is based on the discrete element-finite element(DEM-FEM)multiphysics coupling theory to establish a theoretical model of screw conveying materials, and numerically analyze the interaction force between concrete aggregate and *** result of the study is to prove the accuracy of the numerical model by comparing the simulation and experimental results of the screw rotation torque;When the screw pushes the material, the maximum position of the equivalent stress is in the welding area of the screw blade and the screw shaft;when the multi-screw pushes the material at the same time, the equivalent stress of the screw in the middle position is higher than on sides;For a single screw, the surface of the screw blade is subjected to the largest force at 40~80 mm in the axial direction, the force at the 100~140 mm is the smallest, and the outer ring is subjected to a large force in the radial *** research conclusion is that the increase of the inner diameter of the screw blade or the change to a trapezoidal section can reduce the effect of stress concentration at the weld;Replacing the wear-resistant material or appropriately increasing the thickness of the outer ring of the blade can improve the life of the screw;Screw in the middle position of the conveyor using high-strength wear-resistant materials can improve life. © 2021, Editorial Department of Journal of SJZU. All right reserved.
[32] Yongqian Qu,Degao Zou,Jingmao Liu ,等.Two-dimensional DEM-FEM coupling analysis of seismic failure and anti-seismic measures for concrete faced rockfill dam[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2022,151 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The concrete faced rockfill dam is composed of granular materials and the failure pathways typically exhibits multi-scale mechanical behavior. In this paper, a 2D polygonal DEM-FEM interface coupling analysis program is developed and introduced to the failure analysis of a 100 m high CFRD under strong earthquake. The polygonal DEM is developed to describe the strong-nonlinearity, large deformation and discontinuous of dam. The FEM and seismic wave input method is combined to simulate the dam-foundation interaction. A boned model is proposed to describe the deformation characteristics of face slab and anti-seismic measure. The results indicate that the initial seismic failure of CFRD occurs at the crest zone, and is characterized by the loosening, sliding and even rolling away of the shallow rockfill on the slope. Other initial failure modes include settlement of the dam crest, separation between the face slab and rockfill, downstream sliding of the wave wall and separation between wave wall and face slab. The installation of a nailed protective slab at the upper part of the downstream slope reduces the seismic damage by 27–41 %. The analysis method can intuitively reproduce the seismic failure mode and failure evolution of the CFRD and quantify the effect of the anti-seismic measure. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
[33] Li, Kaifa,Wang, Cheng,Hu, Xingyuan ,等.DEM-FEM coupling simulation of residual stresses and surface roughness induced by shot peening of TC4 titanium alloy[J].The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology,2022,118 (5-6):1469-1483,SPRINGER LONDON LTD
摘要：An integrated DEM-FEM coupling simulation approach is developed to simulate the real process of shot peening, and is validated by comparing the predicted in-depth residual stresses with the experimentally measured results. Two kinds of three-dimensional finite element models associated with the original surface roughness of R-alpha 0 = 26.7 mu m and 50.1 mu m are respectively established by using Gaussian distribution in conjunction with the exponential autocorrelation function, and another target model without the original surface roughness is utilized for reference purposes. Taking advantage of the integrated DEM-FEM coupling simulations of shot peening processes based on the three kinds of target models, the effects of the original surface roughness, shot impact angle, and shot peening coverage on the shot-peened residual stresses and surface roughness are investigated in detail. The obtained results show that the larger original surface roughness of TC4 titanium alloy could be reduced by shot peening, and the reduction increases with the increasing shot peening coverage from 100 to 200%. In the target models associated with the original surface roughness, the distributions of shot-peened surface residual stresses tend to be more uniform than that in the target model without the original surface roughness, whereas both the in-depth residual stresses and surface roughness are not very sensitive to the changes of shot impact angle in the range from 60 degrees to 90 degrees.
[34] 张涛,蔚立元,苏海健 ,等.基于FDM-DEM耦合的冲击损伤大理岩静态断裂力学特征研究[J].爆炸与冲击,2022,42 (1):39-49
摘要：为探究循环冲击损伤后大理岩的静态断裂力学特征,基于有限差分(finite difference method,FDM)-离散元(discrete element method,DEM)耦合的建模技术构建了三维分离式霍普金森压杆(split Hopkinson pressure bar,SHPB)数值模型,其中杆件系统和岩石试件分别采用FLAC^(3D)和PFC^(3D)程序建模。利用该模型对中心直切槽半圆盘(NSCB)试样进行了恒定子弹速度下的循环冲击,随后对受损试样进行静态三点弯曲断裂实验。通过编写Fish程序,提取试样断裂面数据,对断裂面进行重构并定量计算表面粗糙度。通过与相关室内实验结果的对比分析,验证了本文数值分析的合理性与可靠性。模拟结果表明,随着循环冲击次数的增加,试样内部微裂纹、破碎颗粒均增加。连接力场分布混乱,部分力链发生断裂。力链的变化是试样力学性能劣化的根本原因。在静态三点弯曲断裂实验中,冲击5次后试样的静态断裂韧度较天然试样产生一定程度的降低。试样在静载过程中产生的微裂纹和碎块的数量随循环冲击次数的增加而增加,断裂面粗糙度随循环冲击次数的增加而增加。
[35] 柴平稳,李漪,李柯 ,等.基于耦合的某变电站边坡变形破坏过程研究[J].山西建筑,2022,48 (14):81-85
摘要：以某变电站边坡为研究对象,考虑边坡工程地质条件,边坡残坡积层采用离散元模型,下方砂岩采用有限单元模型,建立边坡三维数值分析模型,研究该斜坡变形破坏过程,分析残坡积层和基岩层在各时步下的变形特征,并监测得到边坡不同部位处形变量大小,然后与现场监测结果进行对比分析,验证了耦合数值计算的可靠性,耦合模型具有运算快捷的特点,可有效将两种数值计算方法优劣互补。
[36] 苏璇,钱四江,赵文杰 ,等.边坡变形诱发路面裂缝的离散-连续耦合模拟研究[J].科技创新与应用,2022,12 (6):52-54
摘要：路面裂缝是一种常见的公路病害,山区边坡变形是路面裂缝的重要诱发原因,而车辆往复加载是路面开裂的直接原因。为研究边坡诱发路面裂缝的规律,对某山区道路的路面开裂进行现场调研,获得路面裂缝的形态、边坡几何参数及变形情况。随后基于现场调研结果,构建离散元-有限差分耦合数值模拟模型,对车辆荷载下的路面开裂进行模拟分析。结果表明,所采用的离散-连续耦合模拟方法能再现路面开裂过程,是一种有效的研究手段。
[37] 刘琦,刘磊,杜雁霞 ,等.对流-辐射换热下功能三明治夹层结构热力耦合FVM研究[J].中国科学：物理学、力学、天文学,2022,52 (12):106-115
摘要：本文发展了一种适用于二维对流-辐射换热环境下功能型芯子夹层结构热力耦合问题的控制体有限元方法(CV-FVM).基于4点四边形单元,对控制方程及换热边界的离散过程进行了详细的推导.基于交错网格技术,将待解变量存储在单元节点,将材料参数存储在单元中心,为保证温度迭代求解收敛将辐射换热边界条件进行线性化处理.针对指数型芯子夹层结构的纯导热问题将本文计算结果与解析解进行对比,二者吻合良好.分别研究了几何参数和物理参数,如毕渥数、辐射-导热系数、环境温度比、面板厚度和功能型芯子梯度因子对结构内热弹性能的影响.结果表明:加热面毕渥数对结构内的热弹性影响很小,而冷却面毕渥数对热弹性影响较大;相比加热面,冷却面对环境温度的变化更加敏感;针对指数型芯子夹层结构,增加上面板厚度可降低上面板与芯子连接处的大梯度应力问题;相比指数型芯子,采用线性分布(p=1)功能型芯子结构应力分布更光滑,可更有效缓解结构内大幅度的应力变化.
[38] Wei Tang,Cheng Zhai,Jizhao Xu ,等.Numerical simulation of expansion process of soundless cracking demolition agents by coupling finite difference and discrete element methods[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2022,146 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Soundless cracking demolition agent (SCDA) as an environment-friendly rock fracturing material has been subjected to many physical experiments, but numerical simulation methods are more limited, and related numerical methods often simplify or even ignore its actual expansion process, causing a large deviation between the simulation results and the actual. In this paper, a numerical model of steel pipe strain test was established and performed to simulate the expansion of SCDA based on the coupling of finite difference and discrete element methods. The influence of the numerical parameters on the expansion pressure was analyzed, and a C-type SCDA model were calibrated and tested by rock fracturing experiments. Results show contact stiffness, particle size, friction coefficient, damping and particle expansion process have different effects on the SCDA expansion pressure in the model. The expansion process of a specific type of SCDA can be simulated by adjusting the micro parameters according to experiment. Numerical and experimental results of rock fracturing proved the effectiveness of this method. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
[39] 王桐,王立华,陈佳明 ,等.基于离散元与有限元耦合的有砟道床沉降特性研究[J].电子科技,2021,34 (3):53-59
摘要：随着铁路技术向高速重载方向的发展,对有砟铁路的研究意义愈加重大。文中针对稳定作用下轨枕沉降和轨枕下方道砟颗粒运动情况之间的联系进行了分析。采用有限元与离散元耦合的方法对轨枕沉降量和道床沉降进行研究。利用有限元软件建立500 mm×230 mm×160 mm简化缩小比8∶1的轨枕长方体模型,然后对轨枕的单元节点进行提取。通过离散元软件EDEM的API接口实现对节点坐标的离散元替换构造出轨枕离散元模型,并利用球形颗粒拼接出不同形状道砟颗粒,完成轨枕-道床离散元模型建立在离散元软件中构建出轨枕-道床缩小模型。同时搭建与轨枕模型同尺寸的试验模型,通过对比验证确定构建的轨枕-道床模型的有效性与可靠性。对不同激振频率下轨枕与道床沉降量分析,得到轨枕沉降规律,确定在稳定过程激振频率达到36 Hz时轨枕沉降量达到最大值。文中得到轨枕沉降量与稳定作业时间的关系,即随着稳定过程的进行,道床沉降量增大,轨枕正下方区域沉降效果明显。
[40] Lei Sun,Quansheng Liu,Siji Tao ,等.A novel low-temperature thermo-mechanical coupling model for frost cracking simulation using the finite-discrete element method[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2022,152 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Frost cracking is widely prevalent in cold areas and is typically associated with the deterioration of rock masses. A better understanding of the frost cracking mechanism and precise prediction of the associated crack evolution are essential for the safety and long-term service life of engineered rock structures in cold regions. This paper presents a low temperature thermo-mechanical (TM) coupling modeling framework, implemented into the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM), to simulate the frost crack evolution in rock masses, considering the heat transfer, water–ice phase transition, and the induced frost heaving pressure. Existing benchmark tests were used to calibrate and verify the proposed modeling framework. Moreover, experimental and numerical results from freezing experiments conducted on samples containing pre-existing cracks have been successfully reproduced the complex mechanisms that lead to crack initiation and propagation in jointed rock formations where cracks driven by the water–ice phase transition initiate and propagate from the pre-existing cracks and deviate under the influence of confining stress and multi-crack interactions (i.e., stress shadow effect). This novel numerical framework presents a potentially useful tool to further understand frost cracking mechanisms and frost crack evolution of engineering projects in cold environments. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
[41] 乔力伟,桑琮辉,袁文超 ,等.隧道掌子面微尘气固耦合动态演化模拟与机理分析[J].安全与环境学报,2023,23 (9):3188-3195
摘要：为研究肺泡区高沉积呼吸性粉尘动态疏散演化特性与机理,解决该类粉尘难以测定的问题,以贵州省内2座在建高速铁路施工隧道为研究对象,对风筒不同位置布局条件下隧道施工作业区内粉尘质量浓度的时空动态演化特征进行现场检测。根据隧道实际工况参数建立数值模型,利用有限元ANSYS-Fluent软件离散模式对粉尘质量浓度场和气流场进行求解计算。结果显示:模拟与实测结果之间相对误差满足工程计算精度要求;通风作业时,Ⅰ号隧道内粉尘疏散出现附壁运动效应,疏散运动的活塞效应较Ⅱ号隧道更为明显,试验中后期Ⅰ号隧道的总尘疏散效率高于Ⅱ号隧道;通风95 min后,Ⅰ号隧道内高沉积呼吸性粉尘出现大范围疏散,而Ⅱ号隧道在通风110 min后滞留粉尘颗粒数量逐渐降低。造成2座隧道内总尘与高沉积呼吸性粉尘疏散效率相背离的主要机理为:较大粒径的浮尘在螺旋状偏向卷积运动作用下更容易穿越台车进行疏散,而小粒径粉尘悬浮效应严重且长距离的随流运动使其疏散时间随之延长。对隧体微尘进行气固耦合动态演化模拟与机理分析,可为通风除尘系统的优化设计提供数据支撑和理论依据,对进一步改善施工环境、保护作业人员身心健康具有重大指导意义。
[42] 陈柯帆,李源,贺拴海 ,等.索-塔耦合结构面内动力学模型及其多重“1:1”内共振分析[J].Acta Mechanica Sinica,2023,39 (11):89-103
摘要：本文考虑拉索几何非线性影响,建立了用以研究索-塔耦合结构面内多重“1:1”内共振复杂机理的动力学模型其中塔被简化为一个由离散参数质量段构成的动力学系统,基于离散塔段间的弯矩平衡推导了该系统的控制方程。采用有限差分法将系统运动方程中的二阶偏微分项转化为差分代数项以便于进行数值仿真。通过模态拖电法得到了结构的模态函数,并与有限元分析结果进行了对比验证.采用4~5阶Runge-Kutta积分方法对系统控制方程进行数值仿真,观察到了具有明显“拍”特征的耦合内共振现象.参数分析结果表明,当发生平面内“1:1”内共振时,索的最大响应与激励位置和锚固位置的对应阶次的整体模态参与质量(MPM)呈强线性相关关系。当多根索的局部模态与不同阶次的全局模态同时耦合时,共振索的振动彼此间相互独立。当与同阶全局模态耦合时,共振索的振动存在相互影响作用.该影响作用与初始激励幅值无关,而索的最大时程响应幅值与激励点的对应阶MPM呈强线性相关关系.文中还进一步讨论了塔-索耦合结构多重“1:1”内共振过程中能量转换问题.
[43] 刘汉青,胡才博,赵桂萍 ,等.利用热-孔隙流体耦合有限元数值模拟研究干热岩开发温度下降过程——以青海共和盆地恰卜恰地区干热岩开发为例[J].地球物理学报,2023,66 (7):2887-2902
摘要：水力压裂是干热岩(HDR)开发最常用到的压裂方式,水力压裂形成的裂缝网络为增强地热系统的运行(EGS)提供了高渗透率的人工储层.本文在系统总结前人关于共和盆地水力压裂实验、数值模拟资料和现场水力压裂监测结果的基础上,引入了离散裂缝网络(DFN),利用多物理场模拟软件COMSOL Multiphysics建立了共和盆地恰卜恰地区干热岩开采过程中的二维裂缝-基质热-孔隙流体耦合模型,并讨论了裂缝开度和基质渗透率对干热岩开采温度下降过程的影响.结果表明,裂缝网络是流体运移的主要通道.温度下降和早期压力变化范围沿着裂缝延伸,并向周围被裂缝分割的基质扩展.裂缝开度和基质渗透率是影响干热岩地热开采过程中温度下降的重要因素.当裂缝开度越大时,流体运移范围就越大,储层温度和产出水温下降就越快,储层下降范围就越广,热突破时间和运行寿命就越短.当基质渗透率越大时,越有利于流体进入基质进行热量交换,越容易从干热岩中提取热量,产出水温下降越快,运行寿命越短.
[44] 宋亚新 .采动应力-承压水耦合下煤层底板突水机理研究[J].中国煤炭,2022,48 (S1):92-97
摘要：煤矿开采过程中,煤层底板受采动应力及承压水影响会发生变形失稳破坏。为揭示开采扰动承压水耦合下煤层底板突水机理,基于离散元及有限元建立了开采扰动承压水耦合力学模型,分析了开采扰动承压水耦合作用下煤层底板变形及应力分布特征,通过工程应用验证了力学模型的准确性。结果表明:煤层底板突水是开采扰动承压水耦合相互作用问题,应采用应力渗流耦合手段进行解决;水的流量对渗透系数影响不大,随着流量的增加渗透系数略有增加,此外,渗透系数与轴向应力之间为非线性关系,因此可以采用指数函数来描述其非线性关系。
[45] 申玉生,甘雨航,资晓鱼 ,等.基于离散-连续耦合方法的圆砾地层超深地连墙施工力学行为研究[J].建筑科学与工程学报,2022,39 (5):251-261
摘要：依托昆明轨道交通4号线火车北站工程(三线换乘站),推导了离散元-有限差分耦合算法,并对圆砾地层中单幅超深(70 m)地下连续墙施工全过程的力学行为展开研究。结果表明:超深地下连续墙成槽施工阶段地层水平应力与竖向应力不同程度下降,槽壁向槽内卸荷变形,黏性土层在槽段拐角附近有土拱形成,区域内应力增加,圆砾地层土拱效应不明显;成槽阶段槽壁累计水平变形由大到小依次为圆砾地层、下伏地层、上覆土体,水平最大位移约为15.8 mm,最大地表沉降约为9 mm;在混凝土浇筑阶段,地层应力在混凝土压力挤压作用下均出现不同程度增长,槽壁向槽外反向内挤变形,地表向上隆起变形,并在混凝土硬化阶段逐渐收敛;研究成果应用于实际工程取得了良好成槽效果,可为同类地下连续墙设计施工提供一定参考。
[46] Shen, Zehan,Xiao, Yuanjie,Tan, Pan ,等.Impact mechanisms of frictional sleeper bottom groove shapes on lateral resistance in ballasted track beds based on discrete element−finite difference coupling approach[J].中南大学学报（自然科学版）,2024,55 (10):3787-3802,Central South University
摘要：Frictional sleepers are proven to effectively enhance the lateral resistance of ballasted track beds. However, there are currently no relevant design standards, and the mechanism by which the grooves at the bottom of frictional sleepers increase lateral resistance remains unclear. To conduct a comprehensive analysis of the impact of different groove shapes on the lateral resistance of track beds and to reveal the mechanism for enhancing lateral resistance, a three−dimensional numerical model of the rail pad−ballast track bed−subgrade system was established using field tests for lateral resistance and a discrete element−finite difference coupled approach. This model was used to investigate the influence of five different shapes of grooves at the bottom of sleepers on lateral resistance at both the macro and micro levels. The results show that, compared to conventional rail pads, different frictional sleepers exhibit significant differences in the degree of increase in lateral resistance, ranging from 35.1% to 80.2%. Furthermore, the lateral resistance increases logarithmically with the increase in the groove's side area. The constraining effect of the bottom grooves on the granular particles of the track bed leads to an increase in the number of contacts at the bottom of the rail pad, resulting in higher contact forces near the grooves, and a denser distribution of contact force chains. The displacement and rotation of particles around the frictional sleepers are constrained. Anisotropy in the frictional sleepers transforms to the horizontal plane after rail pad displacement, which is a major micro−level factor in enhancing lateral resistance. In the design of ballasted rail tracks, it is recommended to design ballasted tracks using frictional sleepers with discontinuous grooves, and to prioritize maximing the groove's side area. © 2024 Central South University. All rights reserved.
[47] 黄世斌,邹辰皓,王家全 ,等.基于离散-连续耦合的加筋包裹碎石桩承载机理分析[J].广西大学学报（自然科学版）,2022,47 (1):13-21
摘要：为了分析土工格栅包裹碎石桩的颗粒散体受力特性及桩体变形机理,基于室内试验结果建立离散连续耦合模型,分析应力在桩体中的传递规律、径向应力系数的相关影响因素、桩体和土工格栅中力链的发展规律以及加筋碎石桩的破坏模式。结果表明:碎石桩的径向应力系数(被动土压力系数)并非定值,桩体破坏时径向应力系数较加载初期最大下降44.8%;径向应力系数变化的根本原因是碎石桩骨架受力结构的变化;全长加筋包裹碎石桩的破坏模式为顶部鼓胀破坏,其细观表现为桩顶部位孔隙率增大,格栅力链大面积断裂,碎石颗粒产生大幅度侧向位移;在承载过程中,格栅横肋提供显著的约束应力而格栅纵肋受力极小,主要作用为固定和支撑格栅横肋。
[48] Hou, Xu,Wang, Weinan,Pan, Jiahao ,等.Optimization of Flip-Flow Screen Plate Based on Dem-Fem Coupling Model and Screening Performance of Fine Minerals[J].SSRN,2024,SSRN
摘要：Flip-flow screen has unique advantages in dry deep screening of sticky and wet fine minerals. However, during the flip-flow screening process, the continuous collision of mineral materials causes the actual motion state of the screen plate to differ significantly from the ideal state. Clarifying the actual motion changes and stress characteristics of the flip-flow screen plate under the combined action of its own relaxation and tension motions and particle swarm collision is the basis for optimizing the structure of the flip-flow screen plate and the prerequisite for improving screening efficiency. Therefore, this study constructed a coupling simulation calculation model for the flip-flow screening system and explored the kinematic changes and stress distribution characteristics of the flip-flow screen plate under continuous impact of particle swarm. Furthermore, the influence of particle mass flow rate on the displacement and impact stress of the flip-flow screen plate was elucidated. Regarding the mesh structure, the stress changes of various parts of the mesh were revealed, and an optimization plan for the mesh structure was proposed through comparative experiments. Finally, a verification experiment was conducted on the screening effect of the optimized screen plate based on a semi-industrial flip-flow screen. When the processing capacity is 4.5 t/(h·m2) and the screen plate length is 1.8 m, the screening efficiency can reach 81.73%. © 2024, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[49] 王东坡,刘浩,裴向军 ,等.基于离散元-有限差分耦合的滚石冲击棚洞垫层动力响应研究[J].振动与冲击,2021,40 (19):246-253
摘要：在棚洞结构顶部覆盖一层砂土缓冲垫层能有效减小滚石对棚洞顶板的冲击力,以往多采用有限元方法开展研究,无法考虑砂土垫层离散特征,研究手段有待改进。以棚洞垫层物理模型试验为原型,考虑砂土颗粒离散性和棚洞混凝土结构的连续性,采用离散元-有限差分耦合算法,其中离散元模拟砂土垫层,有限差分法模拟棚洞混凝土结构,在充分发挥两种模拟方法优势下,开展滚石以不同角度、不同速度冲击棚洞垫层的动力响应数值模拟研究,通过对受冲击棚洞支座反力、棚洞顶板位移、滚石冲击力分析,揭示棚洞结构的动力响应特征。研究结果表明:冲击角度和冲击速度对支座反力影响显著,冲击角度增大,支座反力随之增大。相对而言,在较小冲击角度下,支座反力受冲击角度的影响较大,而较大冲击角度下,冲击速度的影响则更明显;冲击力方面,伴随冲击角度和冲击速度增大,滚石冲击力随之增大,较大冲击角度下,角度的增大对冲击力的提升更加明显;棚洞顶板中心处竖向位移值随冲击角度和冲击速度的增大而显著增大,且在较小冲击角度下,冲击角度对顶板位移的影响更大,而较大冲击角度下,冲击速度的影响更为显著。
[50] 董华超,王鹏,张益进 .翼身融合水下滑翔机舱体−骨架耦合结构的离散优化设计[J].中国舰船研究,2021,16 (4):70-78
摘要：[目的]运用基于数据驱动的离散优化思路,对翼身融合水下滑翔机舱体−骨架耦合结构进行优化设计。[方法]首先,采用一种Kriging辅助的离散全局优化(KDGO)算法解决计算代价昂贵的黑箱问题,该算法采用一种新颖的加点策略来捕获性能较好的离散样本点,并在该加点策略中引入多起点数据挖掘方法,主要包含多起点优化、投影、采样和选择4个阶段。其次,建立骨架−舱体耦合结构的参数化模型,并对耦合结构进行吊放变形和深水受压工况的有限元分析。接着,以浮−重比为目标,把骨架结构、舱体结构的强度与稳定性指标作为约束,同时考虑外形和舱体之间的干涉以及骨架和舱体的耦合关系,建立整体耦合结构的离散优化数学模型。最后,将离散优化算法与耦合结构仿真相结合,搭建整体优化框架,同时采用KDGO算法进行200次函数评估,并对实验设计(DOE)采样阶段最优可行点和优化后全局最优点进行对比。[结果]结果显示,全局最优点所对应耦合结构的浮−重比提升了近40%,结果令人满意。[结论]所做研究可为翼身融合水下滑翔机舱体−骨架耦合结构的设计提供参考。