[1] 武献龙,陈旭东 .砌体墙在支座不均匀沉降下的有限离散元分析[J].土木工程与绿色建筑,2023
摘要：文章采用三维GPGPU并行有限离散元(FDEM)模拟了干接缝砌体墙在支座不均匀沉降下的面内和面外行为。由于材料退化,许多砌体结构的砂浆通常会损失凝聚力,因此,干接缝假设是合理的。这些墙体结构由大量砌块组成,具有高度的非线性和不连续性,在FDEM将每个砌体单元离散为多个四节点常应变四面体单元,并在每个单元内考虑有限元公式,从而能够对接触力和结构变形进行准确预测,合理地表示砌体结构的不连续性。文章给出了简单砖墙的数值算例,并与现有文献的实验结果进行验证,证明了FDEM的适用性和可靠性,进而研究分析了宫殿墙在竖向荷载以及不均匀沉降共同作用下的结构破坏。由文章可知,有限离散元法可用于模拟由支座不均匀沉降引起的砖墙平面内和平面外的破坏行为。
[2] Yan, Chengzeng,Wang, Tie,Zheng, Yuchen ,等.Insights into the Effect of Water Content on Mudstone Fragmentation and Cutter Force during TBM Cutter Indentation via the Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2024,57 (4):2877-2912,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：In the Tunnel Boring Machines (TBMs) construction of soft rock tunnels, adverse geological conditions, such as water-rich and wet strata are often encountered. Water in strata can change the stress state and weaken the mechanical performance of rock mass, further affecting the tunneling process and rock breaking efficiency. To study the effect of water content on mudstone fragmentation characteristics and cutter force during TBM cutter indentation, the water softening effect is considered in the moisture diffusion-fracture coupling model based on the finite-discrete element method (FDEM). Then, the micro parameters (fracture energy release rate, swelling coefficient and moisture diffusion coefficient) of mudstone are calibrated by uniaxial, triaxial compression and swelling tests. Subsequently, the water content and swelling deformation evolution of mudstone samples during water migration are revealed. Finally, the coupling model is utilized to investigate the fragmentation characteristics and cutter force of mudstone samples with different water contents under various confining pressures during TBM cutter indentation. The fragmentation zone, cutter force, acoustic emission (AE), and crack number during cutter indentation are quantitatively analyzed. Results indicate that the vertical extent of fragmentation range (Ev) decreases with the increase of water content, while the horizontal extent of fragmentation zone (Eh) does not decrease obviously until the water content reaches 3%. The increase of confining pressure reduces the effect of water content on Ev, and the increase of water content also reduces the effect of confining pressure on Ev, indicating that confining pressure and water content have a mutual inhibition effect on Ev. Besides, both the peak value of normal force and the fluctuation range of tangential force for the TBM cutter decrease with the increase of the water content. The AE counts show that the failure pattern of mudstone is mainly shear failur
[3] Chengzeng Yan,Du Han,Hong Zheng ,等.A linear fracture constitutive model for the two-dimensional finite-discrete element method (FDEM) and its parameters calibration procedure[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2025,176 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The parameters calibration of the original fracture constitutive model for the joint element in the finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is very complex. To simplify the parameter calibration procedure, we firstly propose a linear fracture constitutive model for the two-dimensional finite-discrete element method (FDEM). Based on the simplified constitutive model for the joint element, the proposed calibration procedure only involves adjusting two parameters (<em>r<sub>o</sub></em> and <em>r<sub>s</sub></em>), which represent the post-peak strain to pre-peak strain ratio and have a clear physical meaning. Other rock mechanical parameters can directly take from the experimental values. Then, the correctness of the proposed fracture constitutive model is verified by a series of rock numerical tests. Finally, the calibration procedure of the input parameters for the Jinping Baishan Group marble is provided by using the linear fracture constitutive model. The proposed constitutive model can significantly simplify the parameter calibration process and improve the computational efficiency, which enables FDEM better applied to practical engineering.
[4] Haoyu Han,Xuantao Liu,Hongyuan Liu ,等.Analysis of step-path failure mechanisms in rock slopes with en-echelon joints based on FDEM simulation[J].Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory,2025,142 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, an in-house combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is implemented to simulate and analyze the entire step-path failure process in rock slopes with en-echelon joints under natural conditions. Based on the Longmenqiao Reservoir slope in Chongqing, China, numerical models of the slope with and without en-echelon joints are established, and a comparative analysis is first conducted to explore the effects of the en-echelon joints on the slope failure mode. Then, to further investigate the slope failure mechanisms due to various influencing factors on site, a series of parametric analyses is conducted following an orthogonal experimental design with six factors at three levels. Through range and variance analyses of the computation results from 18 numerical models, the sensitivities of the slope stability to slope angle, slope height, joint angle, joint length, rock bridge angle, and rock bridge length are evaluated. Furthermore, a single-variable analysis method is adopted to build 24 numerical models with a focus on the aforementioned six key influencing factors to investigate the specific impacts of each factor on the slope stability, slope failure mode, and kinetic energy variation during the slope failure process. It is found that the fracture of the slopes with the en-echelon joints emerges sequentially along the joints and rock bridges from the bottom to top during the small deformation stage and reversals in shear stress direction are observed within the rock bridges during the detachment stage. The slope stability is found to be sensitive to the following six key influencing factors in descending order: joint angle, slope angle, slope height, joint length, rock bridge angle, and rock bridge length. A negative correlation is identified between the slope stability and the slope angle, slope height as well as joint angle while no clear linear relationship exists with the other three parameters. The numerical findings not only deepen the unders
[5] Wang, Penghui,Ji, Chunning,Sun, Xiping ,等.Development and test of FDEM-FLOW-3D-A CFD-DEM model for the fluid-structure interaction of blocks under wave loads[J].Ocean Engineering,2024,303 ,PERGAMON-ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD
摘要：In this study, a new coupled Computational Fluid Dynamics-Discrete Element Method (CFD-DEM) model was developed to investigate the stability of Accropode TM blocks on a sloping breakwater under wave loads. The widely used CFD software FLOW-3D was customized by integrating it with the combined Finite-Discrete Element Method (FDEM) code, which accurately simulates the complex contact and interlocking behavior between multiple polyhedron blocks. The coupling strategy employed in this model involved the FDEM code updating the contact forces and torques at each time step, while FLOW-3D simulated the wave-structure interaction, and then calculated the position and velocity of the blocks for the next time step. Key information exchange between the two codes was facilitated through shared files. To validate the stability and accuracy of the CFD-DEM model, a series of cases were conducted. The results showed good agreement with theoretical results, demonstrating the high accuracy of the model. Furthermore, a representative case involving the interaction between waves and Accropode TM blocks on a sloping breakwater was analyzed to evaluate the capabilities of the CFD-DEM model. The time histories of block displacement, wave force, and contact force were examined. The findings revealed that blocks located within one wave height above and below the still water level experienced more disturbances compared to other blocks, which aligns with engineering practices. These results collectively demonstrate that the presented CFD-DEM model is capable of simulating the complex wave-structure interactions with a reasonable level of accuracy.
[6] 王曈,张宏,陈沛瑀 ,等.基于FDEM和结构预处理的切尾核桃球壳冲击破碎特性研究[J].农机化研究,2026,48 (7):159-167
摘要：在核桃破壳加工中,壳体尾部倒刺是导致碎仁和“露白”现象的主要原因。为此,提出破壳前切除尾部的结构预处理方法,先切除核桃尾部并破坏分心木结构,打破壳仁间的有机连接,随后实施冲击破壳。落锤冲击试验表明,该预处理能够有效降低冲击载荷对果仁的损伤,并减少“露白”风险,从而实现核仁与分心木隔膜的完整获取。为深入探究切尾核桃的冲击破碎机理,采用结合内聚力单元(Cohesive Element,CIE)的有限耦合离散单元方法(FDEM),对简化后的切尾核桃球壳模型的冲击破碎特性进行了数值模拟分析,根据核桃壳的碎裂程度可将破碎结果划分为未破碎、局部坍塌、破碎和粉碎4种典型类型。研究结果表明,在0°冲击条件下,模式间临界转变速度分别为2.5 m/s(未破碎至局部坍塌)、12 m/s(局部坍塌至破碎)和85 m/s(破碎至粉碎);此外,当冲击速度小于10 m/s时,损伤比随冲击角度增加呈线性下降,大于10 m/s时则呈指数下降,表明增大冲击角度可显著抑制破碎程度。研究结果可为新型核桃破壳机械的设计、关键参数优化和工艺调控,以及其他坚果的破碎特性研究提供理论基础。
[7] Yiming Lei,Quansheng Liu,Jiangtao Wen ,等.An efficient Kriging-based calibration framework for FDEM[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2024,296 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is a powerful numerical tool to simulate the transition of materials from continuous deformation to discontinuous fracturing and fragmentation. Calibrating parameters using laboratory data is crucial for applying FDEM to engineering-scale analysis. Considering the high computational costs in existing calibration schemes, this study proposes an effective FDEM calibration framework employing the Kriging surrogate model rooted in Uniaxial Compressive Strength (UCS) and Brazilian Tensile Strength (BTS) tests. The sensitivity analysis is first conducted on mesh size, loading rate, and numerical parameters to find a suitable set that balances computational efficiency and accuracy. Subsequently, an efficient mapping relationship between input fracture parameters and simulated strengths is established based on the Kriging surrogate model, replacing the expensive FDEM program for forward calculations. With the fracture parameters treated as unknown variables and experimental strengths available, the objective function is formulated and then solved to estimate fracture parameters. The effectiveness of the proposed method is validated through a numerical example. Compared to the conventional methods, the proposed approach requires fewer simulations of UCS and BTS, which highlights a significant computational efficiency advantage. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[8] Wang, Jingzhou,Ma, Gang,Zhao, Tingting ,等.FDEM simulation for granular materials based on exact scaling and coarse granulation[J].岩土工程学报,2024,46 (11):2371-2379,Chinese Society of Civil Engineering
摘要：The particle materials are characterized by discontinuity and dispersion, so they face great computational pressure in numerical simulation. The exact scaling criterion and coarse-grained method are introduced into the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) to provide a solution for accelerating the numerical simulation of granular materials based on the FDEM. Based on the theories of exact scaling and coarse granulation, the exact scaling criteria for the FDEM are derived. On this basis, the numerical triaxial shear tests for equal diameter particle system and binary particle system are carried out respectively. The test results show that without the introduction of the exact scaling criteria, the mechanical response characteristics of the coarse-grained model will change, resulting in distortion, and the parameters of the coarse-grained model need to be corrected. After the introduction of the exact scaling criteria, the mechanical response characteristics of the coarse-grained model are corrected. The test results demonstrate the effectiveness of introducing the exact scaling criteria and coarse granulation method into the FDEM. It can greatly improve the computational efficiency of numerical simulation of granular materials using the FDEM under the similar conditions to the original particle system. Based on the numerical test results, the macroscopic stress deformation and mesoscopic contact force are correlated, and the micromechanical mechanism of the exact scaling and coarse-grained methods is revealed. © 2024 Chinese Society of Civil Engineering. All rights reserved.
[9] 冼树兴,叶阳,李长冬 ,等.干湿循环作用下软硬相间地层滑坡-抗滑桩体系劣化特性有限-离散元法(FDEM)数值模拟[J].地质科技通报,2025,44 (6):2-16
摘要：三峡库区秭归盆地广泛分布以软硬相间地层为主的易滑地层,在长期的库水浸泡冲刷、降雨等作用下,地层岩土体发生劣化损伤,成为降低滑坡稳定和影响工程安全的重要内因。以软硬相间地层岩土体为研究对象,采用有限-离散元法(finite discrete element method,简称FDEM)对不同干湿循环作用下软硬相间地层中硬岩和软岩的力学参数进行了标定,然后通过改进的泰森多边形程序进行了网格重划分,实现了零厚度黏聚力单元的嵌入功能,提出并建立了软硬相间地层滑坡-抗滑桩体系FDE.M数值计算模型,最后对不同干湿循环作用下滑坡裂纹的形成过程和抗滑桩的嵌固机理进行了研究。研究结果表明:(1)滑坡模拟裂纹数量随着干湿循环次数的增加而增多,裂纹宽度也逐渐增大,并与马家沟滑坡现场裂缝进行了对比,模拟结果与现场基本一致;(2)滑坡-抗滑桩体系的模拟裂纹呈现2种演化模式,一是裂纹从桩顶侧岩土体沿着桩身向下扩展,二是裂纹从抗滑桩周围逐渐向滑体内部延伸,与横向裂纹和竖向裂纹连通,最终形成大型的贯通裂纹;(3)当干湿循环次数增加时,抗滑桩桩身水平位移、弯矩和剪力也随之增加;(4)抗滑桩嵌固段的软硬相间地层基岩内的裂纹具有局部化发育特征,而且随干湿循环次数的增加,区域内的应力逐渐减小,位移和应变则逐渐增大,相应的裂纹也愈发密集。研究成果可为不同干湿循环作用下软硬相间地层滑坡防治提供技术支撑。
[10] 程树范 .高刚度地基上无筋扩展基础破坏的FDEM模拟[J].土工基础,2025,39 (5):743-749
摘要：扩展基础的破坏模式与自身构造、地基的力学性能等密切相关,在岩石等高刚度地基上,扩展基础破坏模式与土体上存在较大差异。以承受竖向荷载的混凝土无筋扩展基础为对象,采用二维有限离散元方法(2D-FDEM)对其破坏过程进行了模拟,研究了基础高度及地基刚度对其承载力及破坏模式的影响。研究表明:(1)竖向荷载作用下,无筋扩展基础的破坏以冲切模式为主,且随着基础高度的增加,破坏面与竖直方向的夹角有所减小并趋于稳定,剪切破坏特征更加明显;(2)高刚度地基上扩展基础的基底压力呈抛物线形或倒钟形分布,随着地基刚度的增加,基底反力不均匀性增加;(3)通过与传统有限元方法(FEM)的对比,FDEM模型可以模拟破坏面的形成过程,当采用非结构化网格时模拟得到的冲切锥体形态及破坏面位置更加准确。
[11] Yutaro Maeda,Sho Ogata,Daisuke Fukuda ,等.Development of a GPGPU-parallelized FDEM based on extrinsic cohesive zone model with master-slave algorithm[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,166 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper proposes a novel general-purpose graphic-processing-units (GPGPU) parallel computing approach to an extrinsic cohesive zone model (ECZM) - based combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) for simulating rock fracturing. The proposed GPGPU-parallelized ECZM-FDEM incorporates a master–slave algorithm as an alternative to the complex adaptive remeshing process, which is usually used in ECZM but has prevented it from being parallelized using GPGPU. Numerical experiments of the Brazilian test and uniaxial compression test of rocks are conducted to compare the proposed ECZM-FDEM with a GPGPU-parallelized FDEM using the intrinsic cohesive zone model (ICZM-FDEM). Results show that the proposed method can not only overcome the accuracy degradation of calculated stresses and deformations that is inevitable in ICZM-FDEM but also reasonably simulate rock fracturing. Moreover, the proposed GPGPU-parallelized ECZM-FDEM achieves a maximum relative speed-up of 13 times over GPGPU-parallelized ICZM-FDEM due to efficient contact calculations and larger stable time steps. Thus, the proposed ECZM-FDEM is more physically sound and more computationally efficient compared with ICZM-FDEM, which may contribute to the further developments of FDEM. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[12] Yiming Lei,Xuhui Yang,Quansheng Liu ,等.An enhanced polar-based GPGPU-parallelized contact detection algorithm for 3D FDEM and its application to cracking analysis of shield tunnel segmental linings[J].Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology,2024,148 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study introduces the three-dimensional combined finite-discrete element method (3D FDEM) to perform cracking analysis of segmental linings under extreme conditions. Considering the complex contact interactions of segments, this study first proposes a polar-based GPGPU-parallelized contact detection algorithm to handle memory issues confronted by existing FDEM algorithms. Initially, a spatial decomposition approach based on the polar coordinate system is implemented during the broad search phase. Each tetrahedral element is positioned within suitable search cells according to the axis-aligned bounding box. Subsequently, element pairs within each search cell are iteratively traversed, and potential contact pairs are identified using the judge cell criteria. After the broad search, a narrow search phase is executed to determine all real contacts. Following the above implementation, a load-structure model encompassing soil spring and external pressure calculations is then proposed. Based on the shape functions and coordinate transformation, the formulations of soil springs and external loads are derived and parallelized in the 3D FDEM framework. Three numerical tests are presented to validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. Simulation results confirm the suitability of the proposed method for cracking analysis of segmental linings. Compared to the existing methods, it reduces GPU memory usage by 56 ∼ 76 % without extending time, which enhances the computational scale of 3D FDEM simulations. Furthermore, the proposed method is applied to two engineering scenarios, i.e., straight and curved segmental linings, both considering the absence and presence of contact defects between segments. The results show that contact defects can significantly reduce the resistance of the structural system comprising bolts and concrete segments for straight and curved scenarios. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[13] Di Wu,Haibo Li,Daisuke Fukuda ,等.Development of a finite-discrete element method with finite-strain elasto-plasticity and cohesive zone models for simulating the dynamic fracture of rocks[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2023,156 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper implements a finite-strain-based Mohr-Coulomb (MC) elasto-plastic model into the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) with the intrinsic cohesive zone model (ICZM). The formulation of elasto-plastic continuum elements based on the concept of unrotated configuration as the frame of reference is firstly incorporated into an in-house FDEM code, which is parallelized by general-purpose graphic processing units. The developed FDEM code can not only handle the finite elasto-plastic deformation, the large displacement, and the rotation of continuum elements but also simultaneously model the explicit rock fracturing. The split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB)-based dynamic tests, single-hole blasting, and model blasting experiments reported in the literature are then modeled using the FDEM with and without the MC model to elucidate the effects of the incorporation of the MC model on the dynamic rock fracturing simulation results. It is elucidated that the conventional FDEM tends to show more fractures and undesirable overestimations of local stresses and particle velocities while the proposed FDEM can reasonably avoid these issues in all the numerical simulations conducted in this study. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[14] 田甜,张锴,张育维 ,等.基于有限离散元的硅薄膜电极断裂行为研究[J].中国科学：技术科学,2025,55 (4):753-764,Science Press
摘要：由于硅的材料特性,锂离子电池中的硅薄膜电极在嵌锂和脱锂过程中会经历显著的体积膨胀,导致电极内部出现裂纹扩展、闭合以及层间脱黏现象.本文使用有限离散元法(FDEM)建立硅薄膜的力-电化学模型,基于显式数值积分方法模拟锂离子电池中硅负极薄膜在复杂应力环境下的断裂行为,同时研究锂离子在嵌入与脱嵌过程中引起的浓度动态变化.该模型深入模拟了锂离子电池在恒流充放电循环过程中硅薄膜的裂纹产生与扩展机制,并指出电极与基底之间的脱层行为最早在脱锂阶段与裂纹的扩展过程同步发生.在此基础上,本文进一步探讨了硅薄膜表面粗糙度作为影响电极裂纹成核的关键因素,通过对比不同粗糙度的硅薄膜在恒流充放电条件下的模拟结果,发现表面粗糙度显著影响了起裂时间、累计裂纹长度和最大张开度等关键参数.本文为更深入地理解硅负极薄膜在循环过程中的失效机制、优化电池设计和提升电池性能提供有力的理论支持.
[15] 张雅楠,陈旭东 .玻璃结构冲击下碎片扩散的有限离散元验证与分析[J].苏州科技大学学报（工程技术版）,2025,38 (3):43-50
摘要：由于玻璃具有良好的透光性和独特的审美效果,在土建领域应用广泛。夹层玻璃在冲击下易开裂,形成大量碎片并四处飞溅,进而对用户的安全构成威胁。因此,对夹层玻璃结构在冲击下碎片扩散的研究是一个亟待解决的问题。本文采用有限离散元法(FDEM)开展夹层玻璃结构在冲击下碎片扩散的验证与分析。在FDEM模型中,将夹层玻璃离散为嵌入有限元格式的可变形单元,以精确地计算单元的变形、运动及相互作用。参数包括碎片下落距离、冲击速度、冲击角度和冲击体性质等。结果表明:冲击体速度越大,碎片越集中;玻璃梁的倾斜对冲击体有阻止作用;软冲击危害更大。通过参数分析,建立夹层玻璃在冲击作用下的碎片扩散规律。
[16] Sharafisafa, Mansour,Aliabadian, Zeinab,Sato, Akira ,等.Coupled Thermo-hydro-mechanical Simulation of Hydraulic Fracturing in Deep Reservoirs Using Finite-Discrete Element Method[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2023,56 (7):5039-5075,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：Hydraulic fracturing (HF) is one of the most effective stimulation techniques to enhance reservoir permeability. The efficiency of an HF fluid injection depends on the pre-existing discontinuities or sources of heterogeneities and these features need to be considered in a HF operation treatment. Moreover, deep reservoirs are usually located in hot dry rocks (HDR). Hence, thermal conduction through the rock and fluid and advection and convective heat transfer in the fluid can affect the fluid-rock interaction. This study focuses on HF development in deep reservoirs under a high-temperature field. Two separate scenarios are considered: a reservoir containing discrete fracture networks (DFN) and another considering blocks in a matrix as conglomerate reservoirs (there is no relation between the scenarios considered). The study discusses each reservoir separately and simulates their thermo-hydro-mechanical (THM) behaviour using the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). First, the capabilities of the FDEM are verified against the existing analytical solutions, and then the FDEM is employed to model HF development. The effects of controlling factors, including flow rate, fluid kinematic viscosity and DFN aperture for jointed reservoirs and flow rate, fluid kinematic viscosity and block strength in conglomerate ones, are studied. The results show that the high fracture density DFNs strongly affect the HF propagation pattern and fluid pressure rise. Moreover, the DFN's aperture significantly alters the HF treatment behaviour. The controlling factors are observed to influence the HF pattern strongly, and a successful HF treatment requires careful consideration of all the factors. In the conglomerate reservoirs, the strength of the blocks strongly dominates the HF mechanism, in which soft blocks break and allow for uniform fluid pressure distribution and longer HFs, while hard blocks stop fluid from flowing over longer distances accumulating high fluid pressure aroun
[17] Yuexiang Lin,Jianjun Ma,Zhengshou Lai ,等.A FDEM approach to study mechanical and fracturing responses of geo-materials with high inclusion contents using a novel reconstruction strategy[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2023,282 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, a detailed FDEM approach to simulate the mechanical and fracturing responses of heterogeneous geomaterials with irregular inclusions is systematically developed. The inclusion surface morphology is first obtained through 3D scanning techniques. A computational geometry method, the curvature-weighted sphere Voronoi method (CWSVM), is adopted to control the mesh quantity and quality and ensure the efficiency and accuracy of the FDEM numerical model. A signed-distance-field-based discrete element method (SDF-DEM) is employed to approximate the natural distribution and orientation of inclusions. Heterogeneous geomaterials with large inclusion contents (such as 60% and 70%) are generated effectively and efficiently through this approach. Next, to model the fracturing process, a finite discrete element method (FDEM) model is developed by integrating cohesive elements into the mesh in a fast and efficient manner. In addition, a combined constitutive model is proposed to consider the shear-hardening behaviour of the cohesive elements. The proposed numerical approach is verified through comparison with experimental results, including the shape of inclusions and mechanical responses of geomaterials. The results demonstrate that both satisfactory precision and low calculation costs can be achieved using the proposed algorithm. The consequent simulation performance is verified through comparisons of observations and numerical results with experimental results for failure patterns and mechanical behaviours. In addition, the effects of the strength of the interfaces between the inclusions and matrix on the mechanical and fracturing characteristics of inclusion-containing geomaterials are analysed quantitatively. The mechanical strength decreases rather than increases with increasing content of inclusions when the interface strength is less than the matrix strength. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[18] Mansour Sharafisafa,Akira Sato,Zeinab Aliabadian .Hydraulic fracture development in conglomerate reservoirs simulated using combined finite-discrete element method[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2023,279 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Hydraulic fracturing is known to be the most effective stimulation to enhance fractured reservoir permeability by creating hydraulic fractures (HFs). The efficiency of a HF fluid injection largely depends on the pre-existing discontinuities or sources of heterogeneities. These features need to be considered in a HF operation design. Amongst these features, conglomerate reservoirs containing blocks in a matrix are largely ignored despite their presence in deep rocks. This study focuses on the HF development in such grounds and simulates their hydro-mechanical behaviour by using the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM), which is fully capable of modelling HF propagation in heterogeneous rocks. First, the capabilities of the FDEM are verified against existing analytical solutions and experimental fluid injection and then employed to model HF development. In the conglomerate models, three blocks with low to high strength properties are simulated to assess the effect of block strength on the HF development pattern. Various controlling parameters, including in-situ stresses, flow rate, fluid kinematic viscosity, directional HF (DHF), properties of the interface between the blocks and matrix, and their effects on the HF path are investigated. The results show a significant influence of blocks in a matrix on the HF pattern. The HF interaction with the blocks of different shapes and dimensions is shown to be complex, and six interaction types for the blocks are identified based on the close observation of the results. It is also found that to achieve a successful HF injection in such grounds, a low flow rate with a low viscous fluid can be a good strategy. Also, it is shown that the blocks' strength significantly affects the type of failure (tensile or shear) and the breakdown pressure. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[19] 刘军,邓鹏海 .基于FDEM数值模拟的软岩隧洞大变形预测[J].西北水电,2023
摘要：软岩隧洞收敛变形量预测对隧洞施工方法、设备选型和支护设计具有重要意义。采用有限元-离散元耦合数值模拟方法(FDEM)对软岩隧洞掘进过程开展了模拟研究,并调研了地应力量值对隧洞收敛变形量的影响。结果表明:隧洞大变形机理为开挖卸荷引起径向应力降低、切向应力升高,升高的切向应力造成围岩发生共轭剪切破坏,并持续向深处完整围岩扩展,深部破裂块体对浅部碎裂岩块的接触挤压产生宏观空隙,造成体积增大,发生具有碎胀效应的挤压大变形;随着围岩强度应力比的降低,围岩收敛变形量呈指数函数增大,相关系数高达0.996,为软岩隧洞收敛变形量预测提供了经验公式。
[20] Penghai Deng,Quansheng Liu,Haifeng Lu .FDEM numerical study on the mechanical characteristics and failure behavior of heterogeneous rock based on the Weibull distribution of mechanical parameters[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2023,154 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Rock materials are typically heterogeneous. Traditional digital image processing (DIP) technology and the grain-based model (GBM) method are difficult to apply to engineering-scale problem studies, such as tunnel excavation. Based on the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM), a random parameter assignment method is proposed to simulate the mechanical properties and failure behavior of heterogeneous rock. The elastic moduli of triangular elements, as well as the strength parameters of quadrilateral joint elements, assigned by this method obey a Weibull distribution. The simulation results of uniaxial compression, triaxial compression and Brazilian disc show that with the increase in the heterogeneity m value, the uniaxial compressive strength, elastic modulus, triaxial compressive strength, equivalent cohesion, equivalent internal friction angle and tensile strength all increase exponentially and approach those of the homogeneous rock sample. In addition, the heterogeneous rock samples mainly shear fail along their corresponding theoretical failure angle under uniaxial and triaxial compression. The simulation results of tunnel excavation indicate that for heterogeneous rock with different m values, the overall fracture morphology of the surrounding rock remains unchanged, and X-shaped conjugate shear failures mainly occur followed by a small amount of tensile failures, which are similar to the homogeneous surrounding rock. However, with the increase in the m value, the failure degree and the maximum fracture propagation range of the surrounding rock decrease exponentially. Moreover, the simulation results of uniaxial compression and tunnel excavation with different element sizes suggest that the random parameter assignment method proposed in this paper is reliable. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
[21] Liu, He,Shao, Zuliang,Lin, Qibin ,等.Resultant Normal Contact Force-Based Contact Friction Model for the Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method and Its Validation[J].Mathematics,2023,11 (19),MDPI
摘要：In the conventional FDEM (Combined Finite and Discrete Element Method), each contact pair might have multiple contact points where friction forces are applied, leading to non-unique friction force assignments and potentially introducing computational errors. This study introduces a new contact friction algorithm for FDEM based on the resultant normal contact force. This method necessitates determining the friction force at a unique equivalent contact point, thereby significantly simplifying the computational flow and reducing memory usage. A series of numerical tests are performed to validate the effectiveness of the proposed contact model. Using collision and block sliding tests, the proposed contact friction model is verified to be able to accurately capture the frictional effect between discrete bodies and circumvent the problematic kinetic energy dissipation issue associated with the original contact friction algorithm. For the Brazilian splitting and uniaxial compression tests, the simulated results closely align with those generated using the original contact friction algorithm and match the experimental measurements well, demonstrating the applicability of the proposed algorithm in fracturing analysis. Furthermore, by using the proposed contact friction algorithm, a computational efficiency enhancement of 8% in contact force evaluation can be achieved.
[22] Cai, Weibing,Gao, Ke,Wu, Shan ,等.Moment Tensor-Based Approach for Acoustic Emission Simulation in Brittle Rocks Using Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method (FDEM)[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2023,56 (6):3903-3925,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：Acoustic emission (AE), a phenomenon of elastic waves released by localized fracture generation, has been extensively utilized as an effective tool for monitoring rock failure processes in many rock mechanics related fields. Within the framework of the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM), we develop a new AE simulation technique based on moment tensor theory considering the clustering effect of microcracks. The technique first integrates forces around the AE source to obtain the moment tensor, and then estimates the AE magnitude associated with the acquired moment tensor. In addition to quantifying the seismic source mechanisms of the modeled AE events, the technique can also distinguish fracture types based on moment tensor decomposition approaches when an AE event contains multiple microcracks. The effectiveness of the newly developed approach for capturing the distribution of AE event magnitude is firstly verified by establishing a heterogeneous rock model under uniaxial compressive load. Then, we perform four typical tests to validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach for distinguishing the source mechanism of microcracks, and further revise the traditional criterion to better accommodate the discrimination of the full spectrum of AE source types. Furthermore, the fractures generated in the heterogeneous model demonstrate the capability of the moment tensor decomposition approach in distinguishing macro-fracture types on laboratory scales. As an exemplar application, we also establish a numerical model to analyze the failure mechanism in a bridge region of two pre-existing flaws in a rock specimen through laboratory-scale uniaxial compression tests. The work may provide a new means to analyze fracturing and failure in rocks and the associated seismic behaviors.
[23] Shirui Zhang,Shili Qiu,Quan Jiang ,等.Modeling damage evolution in granite under temperature using a thermo-mechanical grain-based FDEM model[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,169 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Temperature has a significant impact on the microscopic damage and macroscopic mechanical properties of brittle heterogeneous rocks. The grain-based model and grain-growth method were used to reconstruct Beishan granite (BsG) based on the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). In addition, a uniaxial loading simulation method for a preheated model was proposed to study the effect of temperature on the thermal cracking and mechanical behavior of BsG. This study found that the crack inclination angle and spatial distribution characteristics of samples have significant temperature dependence. The inter-grain crack aperture is closely related to the nonlinear thermal expansion coefficient and thermal mismatch of minerals. The amount of thermal energy absorbed by mineral crystals is mainly related to the specific heat capacity of the mineral, which is ultimately converted into strain energy and kinetic energy. The transfer of thermal energy causes the thermal vibration effect. The higher the temperature is, the larger the tensile stress and compressive stress. The location of the maximum tensile stress is generally at grain boundaries. As the temperature increases, the peak strength and elastic modulus of BsG decrease, and the ductility increases. The cracks induced by thermal stress become the main defect location of the sample, and the phenomenon of splitting failure appears macroscopically. The inclination angle of shear cracks does not change much with temperature, and the orientation distribution of the tension cracks becomes more isotropic as the temperature increases. The research results have guiding significance for stability evaluation in energy geotechnical engineering. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[24] Gyeong-Gyu Kim,Chan-Hwi Shin,Gyeong-Jo Min ,等.Development of a 3D FDEM-Based Static-Dynamic Sequential Damage Analysis Method for Optimal Mechanical Demolition Processes for Large-Scale Aging Structures[J].Explosives and Blasting,2024,42 (3):9-22,Korean Society of Explosives and Blasting Engineering
摘要：As buildings constructed in the 1980s during a period of rapid urbanization and economic growth have aged, the demand for demolition, especially of reinforced concrete structures, has increased. In large-scale structures such as industrial buildings, a mixed approach utilizing both mechanical demolition and explosive demolition methods is being employed. As the demand for demolition rises, so do safety concerns, making structural stability during demolition a crucial issue. In this study, drones and LiDAR were used to collect actual structural data, which was then used to build a simulation model. The analysis method employed was a combination of the Finite Element Method (FEM) and the Discrete Element Method (DEM), known as the Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method (FDEM), which was used to perform dynamic structural analysis during various demolition phases. The results were compared and analyzed with the commercial software ELS to assess its applicability.
[25] Ma, Junqiang,Wang, Hongsheng,Li, Xuehua ,等.FDEM Simulation and Application Study of Hydraulic Fracturing in Coal-Measure Hard Roof Containing Weak Interlayer[J].Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering,2026,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：A coupled finite-discrete element method (FDEM) was employed to develop a numerical model simulating hydraulic fracturing in coal-measure hard roof strata containing weak interlayers. This research systematically analyzes how weak interlayers influence hydraulic fracture propagation patterns and micro-fracture initiation mechanisms, elucidating their role in controlling fracture trajectory evolution. The findings demonstrate that hydraulic fractures exhibit pronounced vertical asymmetry upon encountering weak interlayers. Specifically, as the Hh/Hs ratio (hard layer thickness to weak layer thickness) increases, fractures display a higher propensity to penetrate the interlayer and extend vertically. In contrast, lower Hh/Hs values promote the formation of intricate fracture networks within the weak interlayer, accompanied by interfacial delamination. Field validation at the 9401-working face of Hengsheng Coal Mine confirms that the proposed segmented hydraulic fracturing technique successfully induces pre-fracturing in hard roof strata, yielding favorable engineering outcomes.
[26] Pengju Wang,Gang Wang,Fulai Zhang ,等.A grain-based FDEM with finite-width microcracks for modeling granite deformation and strength[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2026,193 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The microstructure of crystalline rock comprises mineral aggregates and randomly distributed microcracks that strongly govern macroscopic mechanical behavior. However, existing numerical approaches struggle to simultaneously capture finite-width microcrack closure, mineralogical heterogeneity, and realistic compressive-to-tensile strength ratios. This study develops a three-dimensional heterogeneous rock model within a finite–discrete element method (FDEM) framework that explicitly represents the polycrystalline mineral structure and embeds microcracks with prescribed intensity and finite aperture. Systematic uniaxial compression simulations on granite show that increasing microcrack width and intensity increases both crack-closure strain and crack-initiation strain, while decreasing crack-closure stress and crack-initiation stress. The crack-closure stage becomes more pronounced with increasing microcrack intensity and width, but via distinct mechanisms: higher intensity lowers the initial tangent modulus, whereas greater width extends the crack-closure strain range. Increasing microcrack intensity and width reduces elastic modulus and uniaxial compressive strength, with intensity exerting the stronger influence. As intensity increases, the failure mode transitions from localized shear fracture to diffuse fragmentation. Based on these parametric analyses, we establish an efficient calibration procedure for FDEM micromechanical parameters that incorporates microcrack characteristics. The calibrated model shows excellent agreement with laboratory measurements (relative errors &lt; 5%), reproducing the nonlinear compaction stage and granite’s high compressive-to-tensile strength ratio. Applications to thermo–mechanical and hydro–mechanical coupling demonstrate that the model captures temperature-induced strength degradation and stress-controlled hydraulic fracture propagation in microcracked granite. This work provides a physically consistent framework for modeling th
[27] Mohsen Rajab Doost Khoshdel,Ali Fakhimi .Higher-order FDEM modeling and size effect law for specific energy estimation in free rock cutting using a chisel pick[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2026,332 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A mechanistic understanding of rock chipping is critical for enhancing drilling efficiency and minimizing equipment wear. This study develops a higher-order finite-discrete element model with integrated elastic–plastic-fracture-erosion behavior to investigate chip formation across varying depths of cut. The numerical simulations identified tensile fracture as the dominant failure mode initiating chipping. A modified size effect law (SEL) is proposed to capture depth-dependent behavior. Beyond mere trend fitting, the proposed SEL enables slope-based identification of regime boundaries – ductile to fragmentation and fragmentation to brittle – via log–log analysis of specific energy versus depth. This framework offers an alternative to threshold-based methods and demonstrates improved predictive performance over Bažant’s SEL, with higher adjusted R<sup>2</sup> and agreement with published data. By synthesizing the simulation results, the modified SEL framework, and the experimental data from literature, this study advances the understanding of fracture evolution and regime transitions in rock cutting.
[28] Sun, Lei,Tang, Xuhai,Abdelaziz, Aly ,等.Stability analysis of reservoir slopes under fluctuating water levels using the combined finite-discrete element method[J].Acta Geotechnica,2023,18 (10):5403-5426,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：Fluctuating water levels are responsible for many reservoir slope failures. This work develops a novel slope analysis model (Y-slopeW) to evaluate the reservoir slope stability under water-rock coupling effect, based on the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). The transient fluid fields under water level fluctuations are first calculated, and then slope stability under water-rock interaction is evaluated in terms of the safety factor using the strength reduction method. Several benchmark tests are proposed to validate the present model. Stability analysis of an ideal slope under reservoir water level fluctuation is analyzed, where the effect of reservoir fluctuation rate and rock permeability coefficient on slope stability are discussed in detail. A practical slope case (Majiagou slope) in the Three Gorges Reservoir area is studied. Results show that the fluctuating reservoir water level plays an important role in slope stability, and a rapid drawdown is the most unfavorable condition to the slope stability. The work detailed herein proposes an efficient tool to better understand the failure mechanism and stability evolution for slopes under water level fluctuation.
[29] 孙皓 .边坡在地震下破坏的有限离散元分析[J].土木工程与绿色建筑,2024
摘要：文章针对边坡在地震下的破坏形态,构建了四川汶川王家坡边坡模型,采用有限离散元法(简称“FDEM”),对地震作用下边坡的动力响应进行数值模拟。为了验证所采用方法的准确性,将模拟结果与已有文献中的实验数据进行对比,结果表明,FDEM的模拟结果具有较高的可靠性。文章的研究成果对于深入了解边坡在地震作用下的动力响应及其破坏机制具有重要意义。未来研究可进一步探讨其它因素对边坡破坏程度的影响,为滑坡灾害防护工程提供更多的理论支持。
[30] Wenyu Fu,Qinglin Deng,Zhaolong Ge ,等.Numerical Investigation of Tree-Type Hydraulic Fracturing for Balanced Permeability Enhancement of Heterogenous Coal Seams Based on the Finite-Discrete Element Method Model[J].ACS Omega,2024,9 (20):22090-22101,American Chemical Society
摘要：Tree-type hydraulic fracturing (TTHF) is a new technology that can enhance the permeability of coal seams in a balanced manner and increase the coalbed methane production rate. However, the heterogeneity of coal seams is a major challenge in achieving balanced permeability enhancement by TTHF. Traditional methods based on digital image processing are difficult to apply in practice. To address these challenges, we proposed a 2D numerical model of coal seams based on the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). The elastic modulus of the coal seams obeys a Weibull distribution, and the coal heterogeneity was quantified by an indexm. The effects on the fracture initiation pressure, the fracturing influence range, and displacements of TTHF were analyzed from four aspects, including the homogeneity index of coal, the arrangement angle of branch boreholes, the horizontal stress difference, and the injection rate of the fracturing fluid. The results show that TTHF has a significant effect on the balanced permeability enhancement in coal reservoirs, particularly with strong heterogeneity, and the best permeability enhancement for TTHF is achieved when the branch boreholes are arranged at 45°. The branch boreholes are prefabricated in advance to create a pressure relief area around the injection point, and the hydraulic fracture propagation is affected by the horizontal stress difference only when the fracturing influence range exceeds this area. When the horizontal stress difference increases from 0 to 4 MPa, its fracture initiation pressure increases from 8.93 to 10.86 MPa, with an increase of 21.61%. In addition, the initial stage of fluid injection was found to be crucial for achieving balanced permeability enhancement in TTHF, and a higher injection rate can expand the fracturing influence range. The numerical model has profound implications for the field application of TTHF technology.
[31] Yutaro Maeda,Sho Ogata,Daisuke Fukuda ,等.Modeling of hydraulic fracturing process in crystalline rock reflecting actual mineral distribution using FDEM based on extrinsic cohesive zone model[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2026,192 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A grain-based model (GBM) replicating the exact mineral distribution of the experimental specimen was constructed, and hydraulic fracturing simulations were conducted using the finite–discrete element method (FDEM), enabling direct comparison with laboratory observations. To leverage FDEM’s ability to represent fracture surfaces explicitly, the GBM incorporated the mineral boundary geometries directly into the mesh. An extrinsic cohesive zone model (ECZM) was adopted to improve stress representation, and verification demonstrated that ECZM avoided the artificial stress oscillations characteristic of the Intrinsic CZM (ICZM). Simulations of Brazilian tensile strength tests and hydraulic fracturing tests exhibited both intergranular and transgranular cracking, producing tortuous fracture paths, and the resulting fracture metrics agreed with experiments. The analyses further revealed that fracture propagation pathways are controlled by the interplay between the stress concentration at the fracture tip and the local mineral strength. This framework provides a robust tool for investigating fracture processes in heterogeneous crystalline rock.
[32] Javad Yahaghi,Hongyuan Liu,Andrew Chan ,等.Development of a three-dimensional grain-based combined finite-discrete element method to model the failure process of fine-grained sandstones[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2023,153 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper introduces a novel three-dimensional grain-based hybrid finite-discrete element method parallelized based on general-purpose graphic processing units (GPGPUs) and applies it to investigate the failure process of sedimentary fine-grained sandstones. The grain-based method considers the actual microstructures of rocks with Voronoi or grain-growth tessellations to model their failures, including transgranular, intergranular and intragranular crack propagations. The novel semi-adaptive contact activation approach (semi-ACAA) proposed by the authors and the efficient tetrahedron-to-point (TtoP) contact interaction algorithm developed by HOSS are implemented to speed up grain-based modelling in addition to GPGPU parallelization. Semi-ACAA and TtoP are approximately 2–20 times and 1.5 times faster than the brute-force contact activation approach and tetrahedron-to-triangle contact interaction algorithm, respectively, which are prevalent in the FDEM community. The grain-based modelling elucidates that most intragranular cracks are observed in the medium- and high-strength grains of the sandstones, while most intergranular cracks occur at the grain boundaries between low- and high-strength grains. The transgranular cracks do not discriminate any grains on their propagating paths but propagate and coalesce with intragranular and intergranular cracks, which results in the final failure of the sandstones. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
[33] Shirui Zhang,Shili Qiu,Quan Jiang ,等.Effect of fully-grouted bolts on the failure behaviors of mine pillars: Insights from block-based FDEM modeling[J].Construction and Building Materials,2024,419 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, the Voronoi-based breakable block model (VBBM) based on the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is used to investigate the failure mechanism of mine pillars and the rock-rockbolt interactions. The mechanical parameters of grout-rock and grout-bolt interfaces of a fully-grouted bolt are calibrated via numerical pull-out tests. Then, uniaxial compression tests are carried out on the reinforced pillars. The kinetic energy release rate (KERR) and crack aperture (CA) are used to evaluate the reinforcement effect. The results revealed that the VBBM can effectively characterize the damage failure mechanisms of spalling on the pillar surface and conjugate shear failure in the core zone of the pillar and reproduce the pre-peak nonlinear deformation and post-peak pseudo-ductile behaviors. The passive confining pressure generated by rockbolts is activated only when the rock mass produces sufficient deformation, and the constraints generated by different numbers of rockbolts can only affect the post-peak behavior of the pillar. There is a gradient feature in the internal deformation of the pillar from the shallow surface to the core. If the rockbolt density meets the strain demand, then rockbolts can delay the inward expansion of cracks by generating local constraints and can effectively fix the spalling rock blocks. With increasing support pressure, the CA and KERR exhibit a decreasing trend and strong power-exponential relationships with support pressure, indicating that there is a transition interval of support pressure and an optimal value for setting the rockbolt density. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[34] Di Wu,Daisuke Fukuda,Gyeongjo Min ,等.Development of a GPGPU-parallelized 3-D FDEM with a novel and simple implementation of extrinsic cohesive zone model[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,174 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper proposes a novel and simple master–slave (MS) algorithm to realize the parallelization of the extrinsic cohesive zone model (ECZM) in the 3-dimensional (3-D) combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) based on the general-purpose graphics processing unit (GPGPU) for simulating dynamic rock fracture. The newly proposed algorithm is superior than the complex adaptive re-meshing algorithm, which has been applied in literature to implement ECZM but has difficulties if not impossible in being parallelized for running on GPGPU. Verifications and validations of the developed 3-D ECZM-based FDEM are then carried out through the simulations of the dynamic tensile and compression strength tests of rocks using the split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) system and the rock blasting tests, which are compared against the experimental observations. It is concluded that the developed 3-D ECZM-based FDEM has the capability of simulating stress wave propagations more smoothly and fracture patterns more consistent with the experimental observations, which may promote further applications of 3-D FDEM to model dynamic rock fracturing. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[35] Liu, Ping,Xie, Xianqi,Liu, Quansheng ,等.Influence of the oval hole on rock mechanical mechanism under uniaxial and biaxial compression: insights from the combined finite-discrete element method[J].European Journal of Environmental and Civil Engineering,2023,27 (11):3324-3342,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：To investigate the effects of the oval hole on the strength and the failure mechanisms of rock materials, a series of uniaxial and biaxial compression numerical simulations were carried out using the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). Based on the numerical simulation results, the effects of dip angle (beta), major-minor ratio (omega) and position of the oval hole on rock strength characteristics crack initiation and development process and final failure modes were analysed in detail. The numerical simulation results indicate that: (1) Under uniaxial compression, the ultimate failure modes of rock containing oval holes can be mainly classified into single inclined plane shear failure, X-shaped tensile-shear composite failure and Y-shaped tensile-shear composite failure. Under biaxial compression, the ultimate failure mode is single-inclined plane shear failure dominated by shear cracks. Whether it is uniaxial compression or biaxial compression, the crack initiation position of the main fracture surface is near the end of the major axis of the oval hole. (2) Under uniaxial compression, the axial stress-strain curve of rock containing the oval hole is smooth before and after the peak, but under biaxial compression, there is obvious fluctuation in the post-peak stage due to crack initiation and propagation. In both uniaxial and biaxial compression, the pre-peak elastic stage of the axial stress-strain curve of the rock containing the oval hole is significantly shortened and the peak stress is significantly reduced compared with the intact rock, which indicates that the bearing capacity of the rock is seriously reduced by the existence of oval hole. (3) When the position and major-minor axis ratio of the oval hole remain unchanged, the uniaxial compressive strength and biaxial compressive strength increase with the increase of the dip angle of the oval hole. When the position and dip angle of the oval hole remain unchanged, the uniaxial compressive strength
[36] Tong Ye,Qinghui Jiang,Shu Jiang ,等.An efficient BPNN-NSGA-II-based calibration framework for finite-discrete element method in rock modeling[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2025,179 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To address the challenges of cumbersome calibration procedures, high computational demands, and limited material diversity associated with current parameter calibration in rock modeling with the finite-discrete element method (FDEM), this paper introduces an advanced numerical parameter calibration framework. This framework integrates machine learning with the FDEM to enable efficient and simultaneous calibration and prediction of numerical parameters for various rock types, including highly, moderately and slightly weathered rocks. Extensive batch calculations using the finite-discrete numerical model generated a dataset comprising uniaxial compressive strength (UCS) and Brazilian tensile strength (BTS) values for weathered rocks. This dataset was employed to establish a mapping between the numerical parameters and UCS/BTS results using a backpropagation neural network (BPNN). By applying the nondominated sorting genetic algorithm II (NSGA-II), we identified an optimal set of numerical parameters that align with UCS/BTS experimental outcomes. Notably, the optimization process incorporates an adaptive correction function formulated as a Dirichlet piecewise type function, as this study proposes. This framework enables precise calibration of numerical parameters across diverse rock masses. Simultaneously, the alignment between the UCS/BTS simulation outcomes, derived from the predicted parameters, and laboratory test results underscores the framework’s potential for efficiently calibrating numerical parameters employed in the FDEM.
[37] Pan, Yilin,Ji, Chunning,Zhang, Zhimeng .Computational fluid dynamics-finite discrete element method simulations of saturated granular material under seismic excitation[J].Physics of Fluids,2026,38 (3),AIP Publishing
摘要：This study develops a novel and efficient computational fluid dynamics-finite discrete element method (CFD-FDEM) framework to simulate the dynamic response of saturated granular materials subjected to seismic excitation. A key innovation is the efficient coupling of fluid and solid phases using the immersed boundary method (IBM), enabling accurate resolution of fluid-solid interactions in dynamic, multiphase systems. To ensure scalability, the framework incorporates a parallelized message passing interface (MPI) architecture with optimized contact detection and a coarse-grained message delivery scheme, which significantly reduces interprocess communication and enhances overall computational performance. According to the particle response, base vibrations are classified as either destructive or nondestructive, and the corresponding spatial-temporal evolution of pore water pressure is systematically analyzed for both cases. In nondestructive cases, particle displacements remain limited, and the system largely retains its initial structure, with only minor pore water pressure variations. In contrast, destructive vibration induces a three-stage particle response-pre-damage, damage, and post-damage stages-accompanied by pronounced cyclic fluctuations in pore pressure. The spatial-temporal evolution of pore pressure under both regimes is analyzed to reveal the underlying fluid-particle coupling mechanisms. The proposed CFD-FDEM framework provides a robust and scalable tool for investigating seismic responses in saturated granular systems, offering new insights into failure mechanisms and pore pressure dynamics.
[38] Penghai Deng,Quansheng Liu,Bin Liu ,等.Failure mechanism and deformation prediction of soft rock tunnels based on a combined finite–discrete element numerical method[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2023,161 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The large deformation mechanisms and predictions of soft rock tunnels have always been important but difficult to solve problems in the field of geotechnical engineering. A combined finite–discrete element numerical simulation method (FDEM) was used to study large deformation mechanism, classification and prediction. The deformations or failure mechanisms of tunnel surrounding rock were revealed, and the failure modes and displacement value prediction of surrounding rock with different strength-stress ratios were also investigated. The following conclusions were obtained: (1) Critical hysteresis damping can be adopted to simulate the progressive large deformation process of soft rock tunnels, which can obtain the final deformation of unsupported tunnels and avoid a dynamic response. (2) Under concentrated tangential stress, the surrounding rock undergoes X-shaped conjugate shear fracture, and this type of fracture network continues to propagate toward the depth of the surrounding rock until the model reaches a stable state;the reduction in tunnel cross-section is mainly caused by the macroscopic movement and volume expansion of rock fragments, and the latter is due to the generation of a large number of macroscopic voids. (3) As the strength-stress ratio decreases, the deformation or failure modes of the surrounding rock can be divided into four categories: elastic–plastic deformation, closed fracturing, shear dilation and broken expansion. (4) Finally, a prediction equation for isotropic and homogeneous soft rock unsupported tunnel deformation with general size driven by hydrostatic in situ stress is obtained, which indicates that with an increasing strength-stress ratio, the surrounding rock displacement decreases as an exponential function, with a correlation coefficient of R<sup>2</sup> = 0.997. In addition, the robustness and reliability of the prediction equation is verified. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[39] Kamran, Muhammad,Liu, Hongyuan,Fukuda, Daisuke ,等.Insights Into the Dynamic Fracturing Behaviours of Rocks Under Multiaxial Static and Dynamic Coupled Loads Through 3D FDEM With Various Contact Algorithms and Cohesive Zone Models[J].International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics,2026,50 (4):1969-2005,WILEY
摘要：Finite-discrete element method (FDEM) has become a widely recognised numerical method for simulating the fracturing behaviour of materials under various loading conditions. However, the substantial computational cost of three-dimensional (3D) FDEM has led to a marked imbalance: extensive research exists on two-dimensional (2D) FDEM, while studies on 3D FDEM remain limited. This study investigates the dynamic fracture behaviours of rocks under multiaxial static and dynamic coupled loads, utilising a self-developed 3D FDEM parallelised based on a general-purpose graphics processing unit (GPGPU). The 3D FDEM incorporates both intrinsic and extrinsic cohesive zone models (ICZM and ECZM) as well as various contact interaction algorithms to facilitate robust simulation of a full-scale triaxial Hopkinson pressure bar (Tri-HB) testing system. Dynamic uniaxial and biaxial compression (UC and BC) tests within the Tri-HB framework are modelled with different combinations of cohesive zone models and contact algorithms, and the results are compared against each other and against laboratory experiments reported in the literature. The simulations demonstrate that the 3D FDEM with all these models and algorithms can reasonably capture the stress wave propagations in both metal bars and rocks as well as the primary dynamic fracturing behaviours of rocks under the coupled static and dynamic loads. However, computing accuracy and efficiency vary across model combinations. Overall, the 3D FDEM with the ECZM achieves the highest accuracy and efficiency.
[40] Zhijun Wu,Ruifeng Zhao,Xiangyu Xu ,等.Data-driven enhanced FDEM for simulating the rock mechanical behavior[J].International Journal of Mechanical Sciences,2024,262 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, a data-driven enhanced combined finite-discrete element method (DDFDEM) is proposed to simulate the rock mechanical behavior by directly assigning the rock experimental data into mechanical simulations, thus bypassing the empirical constitutive model of rock. To achieve this, a novel data-driven iterative solver with transient dynamic system equilibrium constraint is first proposed and embedded into the FDEM computing framework. Then, the bonding force update algorithm for crack elements is improved to mitigate the error accumulation during the iteration process. After that, a recommended formation for the proper size of the experimental data set is proposed to balance the computational accuracy and efficiency of DDFDEM, and an efficient nearest neighbor search algorithm is introduced to significantly improve the computational efficiency of DDFDEM. After the above improvements, the computational accuracy and efficiency of DDFDEM in simulating the rock deformation and complex failure process are validated by conducting several examples, including the thin plate tension test, uniaxial compression test, and Brazilian disk test. Finally, the advantage of DDFDEM over conventional FDEM in comprehensively presenting the information hidden behind the experimental data sets is validated by reproducing the nonlinear mechanical behaviors of rock samples based on a data set following the nonlinear elastic material law. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[41] Bo, Han,Zhang, Chun-lei,Peng, Gen-qiang ,等.Machine learning-driven parameter calibration for the FDEM model in weathered rock seabed[J].Marine Georesources & Geotechnology,2026,44 (2):370-382,TAYLOR & FRANCIS INC
摘要：In areas of weathered rock seabed, the bearing capacity of offshore wind turbine monopile foundations is significantly reduced due to seabed rock fragmentation. The Finite Discrete Element Method (FDEM) is a powerful tool for simulating rock fracture and fragmentation, but calibrating its microscopic parameters remains challenging due to complex nonlinear relationships and reliance on empirical analysis. This study proposes a back-analysis approach integrated with machine learning as a means of establishing bidirectional mappings between Type I and Type II fracture energy parameters (GI, GII) and target mechanical properties (tensile strength, fracture modes). A dataset comprising 250 FDEM simulations from Brazilian splitting tests on weathered granite was constructed by systematically varying GI and GII values to capture their impact on Brazilian Tensile Strength (BTS). Two composite models were developed: Hierarchical Support Vector Regression (HSVR) and Neural Network Extreme Gradient Boosting (NeurXGB). NeurXGB achieved superior performance, with R2 exceeding 0.97 for forward prediction and 0.89 for inverse parameter inversion, surpassing the performance of four traditional methods. The proposed framework offers a systematic and efficient approach to FDEM parameter Calibration by reducing calibration time and circumventing iterative trial-and-error processes.
[42] 张永成,盖广鑫,宗望远 ,等.基于FDEM的核桃挤压-剪切载荷下破碎机理与减损方法[J].农业机械学报,2025,56 (3):291-300
摘要：破壳取仁是核桃精深加工的重要环节,针对现有核桃破壳方式脱壳效率低、整仁率不高等问题,本文通过有限元耦合离散单元法(FDEM)模拟核桃在挤压剪切载荷下的破碎过程,提出了一种挤压-剪切破壳方法,测定了温185核桃壳厚、壳仁间隙等物理参数,构建了仿真模型并进行了参数标定。通过定性和定量分析了核桃壳和仁在挤压-剪切载荷下破壳角度对壳仁断裂的影响以及破壳角度和压缩量对核桃壳仁破碎影响规律,明晰了核桃挤压-剪切载荷下破碎机理及核仁损伤的原因。结果表明:核桃壳仁破碎机理为核桃壳在拉伸主导下断裂,在接触表面产生贯穿裂纹,有利于核桃快速破壳,核桃仁在剪切主导下断裂,在破壳过程中核桃仁易与壳发生多点接触,产生应力集中导致断裂发生,不利于保持仁的完整性,各破壳角度下随着压缩量增加,核桃壳受到持续加载的力使其向里运动,导致核桃仁损伤逐渐增加。以上机理表明,若在核桃壳发生初次断裂后不继续施加破壳力,给其一个恢复变形时间,然后继续施加间歇加载力,减少壳与仁的多点接触,可使其在小位移下进行多次破壳,有效降低核桃仁损伤。提出了同向对辊破壳方式实现多次小位移破壳,并进行了试验验证,优化结果表明两辊转速分别为33、28 r/min、破壳间隙为33 mm时,破壳率为96.9%,整仁率为84.3%,与传统对向旋转破壳方式相比,破壳率、整仁率分别提高7.7、3.2个百分点,研究结果可为核桃破壳效果的提升提供理论参考。
[43] Wang, Weiqin,Ren, Jianju,Liu, Kaide ,等.Investigation of the influence of model control parameters on fracture characteristics of GPU parallel FDEM[J].Geomechanics and Geophysics for Geo-Energy and Geo-Resources,2023,9 (1):1-19,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：Surrounding rock mass fracture characteristics play a significant role in the understanding of the CO2 geological storage and utilization (CGSU) engineering practices in abandoned mines. The combined finite discrete element method (FDEM) shows advantages in simulating fracture and fragmentation of rock-like materials, however, many computational parameters and a lack of basis for accurate values affect the simulation results. For systematic explorations of the influence of the effect of model parameters with different time steps, this study conducted different loading rate specimen tests and unloading rate tests both in laboratory-scale tests and field-scale based on the CUDA-based GPU parallel FDEM program. In laboratory-scale uniaxial compressive strength (UCS) tests, a smaller loading rate ensures a quasi-static loading process and should be below 0.1 ms(-1) for simulation. Then, continuous optimization and improvement of the GPU parallel FDEM in tunnel excavation were proposed, and the model parameters reflect the continuous improvement of the simulation results. In the process, the tunnel excavation simulation method with the reduction rate of the opening zone's Young's modulus in the excavation was performed to investigate the unloading mode and rate by continuing to optimize the GPU parallel FDEM program and model parameters. Besides, the main factor in fracture mode and failure mechanism of the surrounding rock mass also was calibrated. The results indicate that the system kinetic energy of the model is maintained at a small level with the reasonable unloading mode and critical threshold set at a small value, the damping parameters, dissipation mechanism, and excavation fractures are clearer and reasonable, and the computational cost is significantly reduced with GPU parallel FDEM.
[44] Zheng, Yuchen,Yan, Chengzeng .A Coupled FDEM-SPH Model for Simulating Problems of Fluid-Solid Interaction[J].International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics,2025,49 (14):3317-3336,WILEY
摘要：This paper introduces the FDEM-SPH model, which combines the strengths of FDEM to simulate solid deformation, fracture, and fragmentation and SPH to simulate fluid flow. The coupling of these two methods is achieved through dynamic boundary conditions at the fluid boundary and the application of fluid forces at the solid boundary. The accuracy of the SPH code is validated through the dam collapse test, while the correctness of the FDEM-SPH model is confirmed by the hydrostatic pressure and floating object test, and Scott Russell's wave generator. The FDEM-SPH model is then utilized to simulate hydraulic fracturing and deformable landslide surges. Unlike existing FDEM-based hydro-mechanical models, which are limited by the connection relationship between the joint element and the triangular element, the FDEM-SPH model overcomes this limitation and is capable of simulating large-scale fluid-solid interaction problems, such as large-aperture hydraulic fracturing, landslide surges, water entry, et al.
[45] 张育维,张锴,郑百林 .三元活性颗粒在外部载荷作用下锂化诱导断裂的有限离散元分析[J].力学季刊,2024,45 (4):993-1005
摘要：部分实验发现,对锂离子电池在充放电过程中施加一定外部压力可以提高循环性能,但压力是如何影响活性颗粒的断裂机理仍有待探究.对锂电池施加的外力往往会以两种形式传递到电极颗粒上:一种是通过电池密闭空间中的气体和液体的压缩均匀传递到活性颗粒表面;另外一种是通过电池外壳作用在电极材料上,并通过粘结剂传递到活性颗粒上.本文基于有限离散元(Finite-Discrete Element Method,FDEM)建立了有限变形下的扩散诱导断裂模型,分析三元正极多晶颗粒在嵌锂扩散过程中受外加压力作用时的断裂行为.数值结果表明,对于两类外力传递模型,较小的均布压力都无法将颗粒中心的拉应力降低到不开裂的水平,仍有少量中心裂纹出现;而较大的均布压力使活性颗粒内部的最大主应力变为压应力,对活性颗粒内部结构完整的保持有更好的效果.增加外加压力的大小会使活性颗粒由扩散诱导产生的拉应力全部转化为压应力,避免了拉应力导致的裂纹,抑制了活性颗粒在锂化过程中的裂纹扩展.
[46] Yiming Lei,Quansheng Liu,He Liu ,等.A 3D coupled multibody dynamics (MBD)-FDEM framework with GPGPU parallelization for simulating TBM-ground interaction and orientation behavior[J].Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology,2026,172 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study proposes a 3D coupled MBD (Multibody Dynamics)-FDEM (Finite-Discrete Element Method) framework for simulating TBM (Tunnel Boring Machine)-ground interaction and orientation response. In this method, the surrounding rock is modeled as deformable bodies using FDEM to capture fracturing and fragmentation behaviors as well as the complex contact interactions due to TBM tunneling, while TBM components (shield, cutter head, and disc cutters) are represented as rigid bodies simulated by MBD to efficiently capture their independent motions and mechanical couplings under external contact loads. For each TBM component, the motion is decomposed into the translation of its mass center and rotation about that center, where the translational motion is solved collectively for the entire assembly, and the rotational motion is first computed individually and then efficiently integrated using a quaternion-based orientation update algorithm. To enhance computational efficiency, a GPGPU parallelization scheme for MBD is proposed and coupled with FDEM via a unified contact pipeline under the conventional serial staggered (CCS) scheme. The proposed MBD-FDEM is first validated by a rolling test and a linear disc-cutter test, and its effectiveness is further demonstrated through TBM-ground interaction and orientation simulations, which indicate potential for TBM orientation prediction and guidance in complex geologies.
[47] Wei, Xuanchun,Wang, Lei,Li, Yancao ,等.A Fatigue Cohesive Law-Embedded Finite-Discrete Element Method for Pulsed Hydraulic Fracture Simulation[J].International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics,2025,49 (5):1359-1377,WILEY
摘要：The pulsed hydraulic fracture (PHF) is a stimulation technique of reservoir, which can lower breakdown pressure by generating fatigue fracture. In this study, a fatigue cohesive law is proposed and embedded into the finite-discrete element method (FDEM) to describe the fatigue failure of the interface under cyclic loading. The fatigue is assumed to result from the accumulation of plastic deformation, whose increment is related to the traction variation range of each cycle and the total plastic deformation. The proposed fatigue cohesive law is validated by the uniaxial compression and mixed-mode three-point bending test simulation. Then this fatigue cohesive law is embedded into a fully hydraulic-mechanical coupled FDEM to simulate the PHF. The influence of loading scheme, flow rate, frequency, viscosity and natural fracture density on PHF behaviors is discussed. The results suggest that both the pressure- and injection rate-controlled PHF can reduce the breakdown pressure. The flow rate, frequency, and viscosity have a great impact on the performance of PHF. The natural fractures surrounding a hydraulic fracture (HF) can be gradually activated under cyclic injection. The activated natural fractures contribute to the complicated HF network. These results indicate that the proposed fatigue cohesive model can effectively simulate the fatigue fracture of rock and HF propagation under cyclic injection.
[48] Zhang, Tengsheng,Huang, Junhong,Li, Xinping ,等.Understanding the Damage and Crack Evolution of Coral Reef Limestone Under Stress-Seepage Coupling: Insights From the Finite-Discrete Element Method[J].International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics,2026,50 (2):1128-1144,WILEY
摘要：To investigate the damage and failure behavior as well as crack evolution characteristics of coral reef limestone under stress-seepage coupling, a damage constitutive model was developed for coral reef limestone subjected to coupled stress-seepage conditions. Based on the FDEM (Finite-Discrete Element Method), the mechanical behavior, mesoscopic progressive failure process, and crack propagation mechanisms were analyzed. The regulatory effects of confining pressure and pore water pressure on the mechanical response and seepage evolution of the coral reef limestone were also clarified. The results show that coral reef limestone exhibits pronounced brittle failure characteristics under stress-seepage coupling. Its mechanical behavior is jointly controlled by confining pressure and seepage pressure: strength and deformation capacity increase with confining pressure but decrease with pore water pressure. The constitutive model developed using the FDEM approach can accurately describe the mechanical behavior of the rock mass under coupled stress-seepage conditions and shows a high degree of agreement with experimental results. Confining pressure and water pressure have significant effects on the mechanical behavior and crack evolution of coral reef limestone. Under low confining and seepage pressures, cracks primarily propagate linearly in a shear-dominated mode. As both pressures increase, the failure mode gradually transitions to a mixed tensile-shear regime, with increased crack density and more complex propagation paths. Eventually, a multi-branched and multi-level through-going failure network forms, resulting in a significant reduction in residual strength. These findings provide theoretical support for stability assessment of underground island engineering and prevention of seepage-induced geohazards.
[49] Yiming Lei,Quansheng Liu,He Liu ,等.An updated Lagrangian framework with quadratic element formulations for FDEM[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2023,164 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, quadratic element formulations (i.e., ten-node tetrahedral elements and twelve-node cohesive elements) are proposed to improve the computational accuracy of the three-dimensional combined finite-discrete element method (3D FDEM). The ten-node tetrahedral element formulation is developed based on the isoparametric transformation. As for the twelve-node cohesive element formulation, the opening displacement is described by quadratic interpolation within the element, which is fully compatible and connected with the adjacent ten-node tetrahedral elements. To integrate quadratic element formulations into FDEM, a novel and more generalized updated Lagrangian framework (UL-FDEM) is developed to replace the non-Cartesian framework in the original FDEM. The equilibrium equation of UL-FDEM is established based on the principle of virtual work. Subsequently, the governing equation of UL-FDEM is derived by employing the isoparametric discretization techniques. Several numerical examples are provided to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. The results demonstrate that this approach is well-suited for the geometrically nonlinear analysis and achieves higher accuracy in stress and fracturing predictions than the original FDEM under the same mesh size. The proposed approach can use fewer elements to perform fracturing analysis, thus improving computational efficiency. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[50] Zou, Wenchao,Huang, Zhongwei,Wang, Zikang ,等.Numerical Analysis of Fracture Propagation Behavior in Hard Rocks Subjected to Radial Borehole Fracturing Based on the Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method[M],2024,American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA)
摘要：Hydraulic fracturing is an important stimulation technology to achieve high and stable production in deep and ultra-deep reservoirs. However, there are currently numerous complex technical problems, such as high breakdown pressure, single fracture and uncontrollable. To addressing those issues, a novel stimulation, radial borehole fracturing has been proposed. To have a clear understanding of the radial borehole fracturing performance, a 3D Finite-Discrete Element Method model of radial borehole fracturing is established in this paper. Then, the applicability of the HM coupled FDEM model was validated by laboratory experiments. The results indicate that when horizontal stress difference ratio is 0.4, radial borehole fracturing has a significant guiding effect on fracture propagation behavior. Radial borehole fracturing creates fractures with larger tortuosity and aperture. Compared to conventional fracturing, the breakdown pressure of hard rock in radial borehole fracturing is 9.1%~14.1% lower. As Young's modulus increases, the guidance of radial borehole and the complexity of fracture network strengthen. The present study is expected to provide a theoretical foundation for applicability of radial borehole fracturing in deep and ultra-deep reservoirs. Copyright 2024 ARMA, American Rock Mechanics Association.
[51] Huaming An,Xin Zhang,Hongyuan Liu ,等.Gpgpu-parallelized FDEM modelling of mode-I fracturing during the NSCB test under quasi-static and dynamic loading conditions[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,138 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The hybrid finite-discrete element method (FDEM) demonstrates significant advantages in simulating the fracture and fragmentation of brittle materials. However, the traditional FDEM is computationally demanding and struggles to handle large-scale problems with numerous nodes, elements, and contact interactions. To enhance computational efficiency and scalability, the authors’ previously developed sequential hybrid FDEM open-source code has recently implemented its 2D/3D parallelization, using compute unified device architecture (CUDA) C/C++ based on the general-purpose graphic processing unit (GPGPU). The optimized code runs 128 times faster than its previous version. In this work, the GPGPU-parallelized hybrid FDEM is employed to simulate the notched semi-circular bend (NSCB) tests under quasi-static and dynamic loading. The simulation results accurately capture the deformation trends, fracture patterns, and post-failure characteristics observed in laboratory experiments. The influence of loading rate on rock fracture behavior, force–displacement curve, and fracture toughness was discussed. It is revealed that the essential difference between static and dynamic behavior lies in the interaction of dynamic effects with the material’s structural effects during dynamic loading. Specifically, with increasing loading rate, the notch effect in the NSCB specimen diminishes until complete elimination, and the failure mode transitions from a single splitting failure to a mixed shear-tension failure. Furthermore, a critical loading rate threshold is identified, after which the fracture toughness of the specimen increases linearly while remaining essentially constant before reaching it. This study demonstrates that the GPGPU-parallelized hybrid FDEM is a robust and effective numerical tool for investigating the continuous-discontinuous deformation of brittle materials in rock engineering applications.
[52] Zihan Liu,Louis Ngai Yuen Wong .A new thermomechanical coupled FDEM model for geomaterials considering continuum-discontinuum transitions[J].Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering,2024,16 (11):4654-4668,Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：A new thermomechanical(TM)coupled finite-discrete element method(FDEM)model,incorporating heat conduction,thermal cracking,and contact heat transfer,has been proposed for both continuous and discontinuous *** model incorporates a heat conduction model that can accurately calculate the thermal field in continuousediscontinuous transition processes within a finite element framework.A modified contact heat transfer model is also included,which accounts for the entire contact area of discrete *** align with the finite strain theory utilized in the FDEM mechanics module,the TM coupling module in the model is based on the multiplicative decomposition of the deformation *** proposed model has been applied to various scenarios,including heat conduction in both continuous and discontinuous media during transient states,thermal-induced strain and stress,and thermal cracking *** thermal field calculation model and the TM coupling model have been validated by comparing the numerical results with experiment findings and analytical *** numerical cases demonstrate the reliability of the proposed model convincingly,making it suitable for use across a wide range of continuous and discontinuous media.
[53] Haoyu Han,Daisuke Fukuda,Hongyuan Liu ,等.Modelling dynamic fracture and fragmentation of rocks under multiaxial coupled static and dynamic loads with a parallelised 3D FDEM[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,172 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, a three-dimensional (3D) combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) based simulator, which enables the robust simulation of full-scale triaxial Hopkinson bar (Tri-HB) testing system, including the capture of fracture and fragmentation processes of rock specimens as well as the detection and analysis of generated rock fragments, is developed for investigating the dynamic responses of rocks subjected to multiaxial coupled static and dynamic loads. An innovative two-step approach is proposed to first efficiently achieve the static stress state in the entire Tri-HB system and then apply dynamic loading to the system. The proposed approach with the schemes of mass scaling and local damping can significantly reduce the run time for static computation involving cohesive elements and complex contact mechanics in the framework of explicit time-integration. The developed program is well validated by achieving dynamic stress equilibrium in the Tri-HB system and comparing the simulated stress wave profiles with those from laboratory experiments. Then, the progressive dynamic fracture and fragmentation processes of rocks under different static stress conditions in a full-scale Tri-HB system are investigated, which vividly exhibit the confinement dependence of the dynamic behaviours of rocks in the testing system. It is found that, even with the same loading rate, separate input parameter sets for rock need to be established in FDEM for different confinement conditions to capture the actual rate dependent behaviour of rock. Further studies are also conducted to investigate the effect of interfacial friction on the fracture behaviour, and the results indicate that higher interfacial frictions significantly disturb the dynamic stress variations and the true rock behaviour in the system. Through high performance computing of 3D FDEM, this study is expected to contribute to the understanding of dynamic responses of rocks subjected to multiaxial coupled static and d
[54] Liu, Ping,Liu, Quansheng,Xia, Mingtan ,等.Effect of hole shapes on mechanical behavior of layered rocks using FDEM numerical method[J].中南大学学报（自然科学版）,2024,55 (2):595-606,Central South University of Technology
摘要：To reveal the influence of hole shapes on the mechanical behaviors and failure modes of layered rocks, a series of numerical simulations were carried out using the combined finite−discrete element method(FDEM). Firstly, the basic principle of FDEM simulation of layered rocks was introduced, and then the uniaxial compression simulation of intact samples with different foliation angles was carried out, and compared with the experimental results. Finally, a series of uniaxial compression simulations were carried out for layered rock samples(β=0°, 30°, 45°, 60°, and 90°) with circular, elliptical, triangular, rectangular, and square holes. The results show that for samples with different hole shapes, the compressive strength and the damage degree of samples show a V-shaped change trend with the increase of foliation angles, and the compressive strength reaches the maximum when the foliation angle is 0°, and the damage degree is the most serious when it is 90°. The existence of holes seriously deteriorates the mechanical properties of the samples, and the weakening extent is closely related to the shape of holes. The weakening ability to compressive strength of square and circular holes is the weakest. The failure modes of samples containing holes with different shapes are mainly divided into tensile-shear mixed failure across the bedding plane(β=0°), tensile-shear mixed failure along the bedding plane and across the bedding plane(β=30°), shear failure along the bedding plane(β=45° and 60°) and tensile-shear splitting failure along the bedding plane(β=90°). © 2024 Central South University of Technology. All rights reserved.
[55] Fangming Tian,Boyu Chen .An FDEM meso-scale fracture mechanism analysis of concrete under compression based on cohesive zone model[J].Structures,2025,82 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The macroscopic mechanical properties of concrete are predominantly governed by the mechanical behavior of its meso-scale constituents. To accurately simulate the meso-fracture process of concrete, this study proposes a novel three-dimensional meso-scale Finite-Discrete Element Method (FDEM) model. Based on the experimentally determined mechanical properties of the Interfacial Transition Zone (ITZ) and the theory of interface fracture mechanics, a contact mechanical model between aggregate and mortar was established. Addressing the discrepancy between the jagged aggregate surface resulting from finite element discretization and the realistic smooth morphology, a new parameter conversion algorithm, grounded in the principle of fracture energy conservation, was developed to translate experimental data into model parameters. Through integrated programming in C++ and APDL, algorithms for contact detection, zero-thickness cohesive element insertion, and contact constitutive model assignment were implemented, culminating in the construction of a comprehensive 3D meso-scale FDEM model for *** reliability of the model was verified via numerical uniaxial compression tests, demonstrating excellent agreement between the simulated stress-strain responses, failure patterns, and experimental results. Furthermore, a meso-scale fracture mode parameter—the fracture angle (<span class="math"><math><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">α</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">I</mi><mi is="true">T</mi><mi is="true">Z</mi></mrow></msub></math></span>)—was defined based on the fracture dissipation energy to quantitatively analyze the ITZ fracture behavior under different frictional constraints. The results indicate that under uniaxial compression, shear fracture (Mode II) dominates at the ITZ. As the axial strain increases, the effect of tensile fracture (Mode I) becomes progressively more significant, reaching its maximum near the peak strain. Compared to specimens w
[56] 詹成胜,赵鸿儒,轩慎宇 ,等.基于2D-FDEM的海冰动态冰力学特性数值模拟[J].武汉理工大学学报（交通科学与工程版）,2025,49 (5):1007-1011
摘要：采用二维有限离散元法(FDEM)模拟海冰的巴西劈裂试验,通过对巴西劈裂试验模拟,研究了冰试件的断裂破坏模式、力学响应及其与加载速度的关系.结果表明:随着加载速率的增加,在巴西劈裂试验中,试件的破坏形态无明显差异.此外,随着加载速率的增大,最大加载载荷有比较大的差异.
[57] Jinfang Hu,Gang Ma,Jinzhou Wang ,等.Leveraging FDEM simulations of rockfill materials for an improved constitutive model considering hysteretic behavior[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,174 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：During the operational phase of pumped storage hydropower stations, rockfill materials within the dam experience cyclic loading and unloading due to water level fluctuations. This cyclic behavior can result in the accumulation of irreversible deformation, posing a substantial threat to dam safety. However, there is an absence of a constitutive model capable of accurately capturing the low-frequency multi-cycle hysteresis behavior of rockfill materials due to the constraints of conventional laboratory test methods. In this study, we employed the combined finite and discrete element method (FDEM) to investigate the mechanical characteristics of rockfill materials and develop an improved constitutive model capable of effectively capturing their hysteretic behavior. The results demonstrate the FDEM accurately reproduces the mechanical behavior of rockfill material under shear and cyclic loading and unloading conditions. The “hysteresis loop” exhibits a discernible densification trend with increasing cycles. And the variations in elastic modulus and strain primarily occur within the initial five cycles. The plastic strain increment exhibits a strong positive correlation with stress level, while its relationship with confining pressure is comparatively less pronounced. The proposed constitutive model successfully captures the complex low-frequency multi-cycle hysteresis characteristics of rockfill material with few parameters, showing substantial potential for practical applications. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[58] 邓鹏海,刘泉声,黄兴 ,等.水平层状软弱围岩破裂碎胀大变形机制有限元-离散元耦合数值模拟研究[J].岩土力学,2022,43 (S2):508-523,574
摘要：在层状岩体中掘进隧洞后,围岩破裂碎胀大变形机制与各向同性围岩存在很大差异。对于无支护隧洞而言,其破裂模式可归结为复合破裂、V型凹槽破裂和层间剥落,不同破裂模式受控于岩体自身物理力学特性、地应力和隧洞断面形状等因素。采用有限元-离散元法(finite-discrete element method,简称FDEM)耦合数值模拟研究了水平层状围岩破裂碎胀大变形机制,并研究了岩体强度参数(如黏聚力、内摩擦系数和抗拉强度)、变形参数(如弹性模量)、地应力和隧洞跨度对水平层状围岩破裂模式的影响。研究结果表明,复合破裂为层状岩体基本破裂模式,其机制为水平集中应力产生的共轭剪切裂隙F3在隧洞中心线附近不断向围岩深处扩展,同时产生平行于层理面的剪切滑移裂隙F1,由此产生中央破碎、两端相对完整的板块岩块;左右两侧板状岩块相互挤压向隧洞内翻转运动产生垂直层理面的拉伸裂隙F2。随着岩体强度的升高、侧压系数的增大或隧洞跨度的减小,F1裂隙消失、F2裂隙与层理面斜交,从而产生V型凹槽破裂。当岩体强度进一步升高或侧压系数进一步增大时,F3裂隙在层理面交界处受阻,进而产生了层间剥落破裂。
[59] 郭磊,田文卿,陈辉 ,等.粉末热等静压离散元-有限元耦合模拟与形变预测[J].机械工程学报,2025,61 (16):83-91
摘要：粉末热等静压(Hot isostatic pressing, HIP)过程中,不均匀的粉末初始密度分布会引起包套和零件的不均匀收缩。粉末初始相对密度信息对提高数值模拟中的零件变形预测精度至关重要。介绍一种新的粉末热等静压工艺的数值模拟方法,将离散元填粉结果中的相对密度信息原位添加至有限元模型中进行形变模拟。该方法能够在有限元模型中耦合离散元粉末相对密度信息,并提高轮廓预测的准确性。比较离散元-有限元耦合模型、单一有限元模型的轮廓预测精度,证明耦合模型预测精度更高,局部误差最多减小0.71 mm。通过改进焊接位置的几何轮廓和材料属性,可以进一步提高模拟精度。离散元-有限元耦合模型为粉末热等静压提供了一种更加准确的预测方法,并且在圆柱形包套上进行了规律性探索,有望对复杂零件的模拟提供新思路。
[60] Deng, Peng-Hai,Liu, Quan-Sheng .Prediction of Large Deformation and New Classification of Soft Rock Based on FDEM Simulation[J].中国公路学报,2024,37 (11):164-180,Chang'an University
摘要：The prediction and classification of large deformation of the soft rock tunnel in the field of tunnel engineering are important and complex. The limitations of previous predictions and classifications of large deformation of soft rock tunnels were summarized. Considering its advantages in simulating the fracture of the tunnel surrounding rock mass, the combined finite-discrete element numerical method (FDEM) was used to simulate the deformation and failure process of soft rock with different strength-stress ratios. The large deformation mechanism of the surrounding rock under high in-situ stress as well as the deformation or failure mode of surrounding rock under different in-situ stresses were revealed. In addition, the tunnel deformation prediction equation and new classification of tunnel deformation based on the strength-stress ratio were proposed. The following findings were obtained from the present study. ① Critical hysteresis damping can be adopted to simulate the progressive large deformation process of soft rock tunnel, which can yield the final deformation of the unsupported tunnel and prevent a dynamic response. ② As the strength-stress ratio decreases, the deformation or failure modes of surrounding rock can be divided into four categories: elastic-plastic deformation, closed fracturing, shear dilation, and broken expansion. In addition, new classification of rock deformation based on different surrounding rock failure modes, as well as the corresponding support measures, were proposed. ③ A prediction equation for tunnel deformation based on the deformation of surrounding rock obtained from different strength-stress ratio was proposed;compared with previous prediction models, this prediction equation can improve prediction accuracy and applicability, and makes up for the deficiency of the previous models that the prediction error is great at low strength stress ratio, which indicates that this equation is particularly suitable for the prediction of larg
[61] Chi Liu,Xiaoli Liu,Chunlu Wu ,等.Investigation of Multiscale Failure Mechanism of Red Bed Soft Rock using Grain-Based Finite-Discrete Element Method Combined with X-Ray Micro-computerized Tomography[J].KSCE Journal of Civil Engineering,2023,27 (3):1350-1367,Elsevier Science
摘要：The mechanical properties and failure mechanisms of geomaterials are greatly affected by their heterogeneity. As a special complex rock medium, the mechanical response of red bed soft rock is of considerable importance in stability analyses and the protection of slopes. In this study, X-ray micro-computerized tomography (micro-CT) was used to obtain the spatial distribution of minerals in red bed soft rock. An image processing procedure was proposed to incorporate the extracted mesoscopic mineral and crack distribution into the model of the grain-based finite-discrete element method (GB-FDEM). Subsequently, a uniaxial compression test and Brazilian disc splitting test were performed to obtain the mechanical response and failure modes of mudstone. The microscopic fracture morphology and traces of intragranular and intergranular cracks under tensile and shear stress were analyzed in detail. The numerical results show that the GB-FDEM model successfully characterized the mechanical response, which was similar to that of the laboratory tests and the traditional homogeneous models. The presence of minerals and pre-existing cracks disturbed the stress distribution in the heterogeneous model, which resulted in a difference in local stress that reasonably explained the phenomenon of local fragmentation. The simulated macroscopic failure mode of the heterogeneous models was most consistent with the results of the laboratory tests. The systematic framework proposed in this study provides a powerful tool for further understanding the multiscale (micro, meso, and macro) failure mechanism of red bed soft rock and predicting a realistic fracture process while reducing the tedious and redundant laboratory tests.
[62] Wu Biye,Dai Junwu,Jin Huan ,等.Numerical simulation on the seismic performance of retrofitted masonry walls based on the combined finite-discrete element method[J].Earthquake Engineering and Engineering Vibration,2023,22 (3):777-805,Springer Berlin Heidelberg
摘要：Due to the long construction life,improper design methods,brittle material properties and poor construction techniques,most existing masonry structures do not perform well during *** retrofitting method using an external steel-meshed mortar layer is widely used to retrofit existing masonry *** the seismic performance of masonry walls reinforced by an external steel-meshed mortar layer reasonably and effectively is a difficult subject in the research field of masonry *** on the combined finite-discrete elements method,the numerical models of retrofitted brick walls with four different masonry mortar strengths by an external mortar layer are *** shear strength of mortar and the contact between the retrofitted mortar layer and the brick blocks are discussed in *** failure patterns and load-displacement curves of the retrofitted brick walls were obtained by applying low cycle reciprocating loads to the numerical model,and the bearing capacity and the failure mechanism of the retrofitted walls were obtained by comparing the failure patterns,ultimate bearing capacity,deformability and other aspects with the *** study provides a basis for improving the seismic strengthening design method of masonry structures and helps to better assess the seismic performance of masonry structures after retrofitting.
[63] Heilman, E.,Euser, B.,Frash, L. ,等.FDEM modeling of PDC cutter-rock interactions for geothermal drilling applications[M],2024,American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA)
摘要：We aim to model PDC cutter-rock interactions in 3-D through numerical study to find an optimal arrangement of parameters for efficient geothermal drilling. Using the combined finite discrete element method (FDEM), we model realistic pressure conditions and rock fracture and fragmentation. FDEM can model both continuum and discontinuous mechanical behavior, which allows for modeling of fracture in targeted rock at downhole conditions. We simulate PDC cutter-rock interaction in 3-D for a range of back rake angles, cutting speeds, and depth of cuts using granite as our target rock material. These parameters are varied to investigate the impact on the cutting force and fracture dynamics in an effort to benchmark performance. We reproduce results from numerical rock cutting tests and qualitative results from laboratory experiments. We report on the progress of the numerical analysis for this complex multi-physics problem. Copyright 2024 ARMA, American Rock Mechanics Association.
[64] Sadjad Naderi,Yuyang Wang,Xiaowei Yang ,等.Optimised hammer drilling bit design using artificial neural networks trained by FDEM-generated data[J].Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering,2025,17 (11):6868-6880,Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：For rapid and cost-effective hammer drilling,accurate prediction of rock impact response is crucial for designing optimal bits and maximising rock *** design optimisation workflows combine numerical simulations and experiments but often require numerous iterations to pinpoint the optimal *** physics-based models can potentially reduce experimental expenses,their significant computational demands present challenges when simulating the complex fragmentation dynamics during drill bit-rock *** study introduces a data-driven artificial intelligence(AI)model,employing a multilayer perceptron(MLP)as a *** model leverages the hybrid finitediscrete element model(FDEM)as a powerful method in rock fracture mechanics to generate a sufficiently large training *** automated workflow has been developed for generating the training data,comprising a pipeline that includes pre-processing,solving,and post-processing ***,the AI models were integrated into an optimisation framework alongside uncertainty quantification to demonstrate their potential in enhancing drilling efficiency through optimised bit design and *** MLP exhibits high accuracy in predicting key parameters,including rebound velocity,total crack length,quantities of fragments with different sizes and maximum contact force between rock and ***,this approach achieves real-time prediction compared to the 5-7 min simulation times of *** this data-driven model into a design framework enables rapid assessment of different bit designs under various operational *** broadly,this approach has the potential to impact other applications,such as digital twins,serving as a forward and inverse model for predicting rock type and optimising drilling performance.
[65] Chenyu Xu,Quansheng Liu,Jian Wu ,等.Numerical study on P-wave propagation across the jointed rock masses by the combined finite-discrete element method[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2022,142 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is an advanced finite and discrete element coupling method. This study further applies it to the problem of stress wave propagation in the jointed rock mass. Firstly, the fundamental theory of FDEM is briefly described and the methods commonly used in FDEM to characterize structural planes are comprehensively analyzed. Then, based on the viscous boundary condition (VBC), the viscous-spring boundary condition (VSBC) is added to absorb the reflected wave at the artificial boundary and restore the residual displacement to meet the actual engineering. In addition, the application range of the VBC and VSBC is verified, which indicates that the VBC and VSBC in the improved FDEM can be well applied not only to the continuum range but also to the case of the new fracture formed. Finally, several classic models are solved to verify the stress wave propagation across different types of joints by FDEM. The results reveal that results from FDEM agree well with analytical solutions based on the displacement discontinuity model and numerical solutions from universal distinct element code (UDEC), which means that the improved FDEM can capably and accurately simulate wave propagation in the jointed rock mass. © 2021 Elsevier Ltd
[66] Wu, Zhijun,Cui, Wenjun,Weng, Lei ,等.Modeling Geothermal Heat Extraction-Induced Potential Fault Activation by Developing an FDEM-Based THM Coupling Scheme[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2023,56 (5):3279-3299,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：One controversial issue associated with enhanced geothermal systems is induced seismicity, which limits their broader application. As induced seismicity has a strong correlation with the activation of pre-existing faults, understanding processes controlling the potential fault activation during geothermal heat extraction is of critical importance. In this study, a coupled thermal-hydraulic-mechanical (THM) scheme is formulated based on the combined finite-discrete-element method to investigate the triggering mechanisms of potential fault activation during geothermal heat extraction. The developed thermal and hydraulic solving frameworks account for the heat transfer of various kinds and fracture fluid migration in the rock mass, respectively. The fully coupled THM scheme is established by pairwise coupling between thermal, hydraulic, and mechanical solving frameworks, and is then progressively verified against analytical solutions by five validation examples. Finally, cold-fluid injection-induced potential activation of a fault during geothermal heat extraction is investigated. The results demonstrate that the gradual aseismic opening and slip of the fault at low injection pressure are caused by the thermal contraction-induced reduction of the imposed normal stress on the fault surface due to convective cooling. The thermally induced aseismic slip weakens the fault and contributes to triggering sudden (unstable) fault slips. The convective thermal transfer coefficient is found to greatly affect the onset time of the fault aseismic slip. The effects of the injection pressure and temperature as well as the in-situ stress field are also discussed. The findings justify thermal effects in controlling the potential fault slip behavior and illuminate the triggering mechanism of unexpected seismic activities during geothermal heat extraction even at injection pressure below the safety threshold value.
[67] Yimin Cao,Guanglei Cai,Huanyu Wu ,等.Investigating fracture mechanics in 3D-printed rocks using the hybrid finite-discrete element method[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2024,311 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：We describe our contribution to the <em>Damage Mechanics Challenge</em> in employing the hybrid finite-discrete element method (FDEM) to investigate the fracturing process of notched three-point bending experiments on additively manufactured synthetic rocks. The calibrated numerical models can reproduce and adequately predict laboratory results in terms of load–displacement behavior and fracture pattern, suggesting that the FDEM approach could simulate the damage evolution and the fracturing of the rock. We identify several obstacles that prevent more accurate prediction of the fracturing process, particularly the difficulties in calibrating the fracture energy values for different failure modes. These highlight the directions for future research.
[68] Zhao, Ruifeng,Wu, Zhijun,Xu, Xiangyu ,等.Data-Driven Enhanced Field-Scale 3D FDEM Method Incorporating Heterogeneity in Rock Engineering Simulations[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2026,59 (4):5199-5224,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：The heterogeneity induced by rock mass structural planes significantly affects the accuracy of rock engineering simulations. This research proposes a data-driven enhanced field-scale 3D finite-discrete element method (DF-3DFDEM) that effectively reproduces rock heterogeneity and enables efficient simulation of rock engineering problems. To explicitly represent rock heterogeneity, the upscale element assembly (UEA) embedded with structural planes is generated, where fracture geometry follows probabilistic distributions. A homogenization method is proposed to separately homogenize the continuous and discontinuous deformation decided by the rock matrix and structural planes, establishing the correlation between multi-scale mechanical properties. Multi-scale UEAs are then subjected to various loading paths, producing a mechanical behavior data set considering rock heterogeneity and historical damage through 3D FDEM simulations. To overcome the computational complexity of processing homogenized time series data, a convolutional neural network-based mixture density network (CNN-MDN) is developed. This hybrid deep learning framework integrates dilated convolutional layers to expand receptive fields for historical damage encoding and employs probabilistic output layers to resolve the one-to-many mapping challenges inherent in heterogeneous material responses. Implementation of general-purpose graphics processing unit (GPGPU) achieves computational acceleration through parallel computing. The DF-3DFDEM is validated through the simulation of tunnel excavation at Jinping II Hydropower Station, with results aligning well with field monitoring data. Compared to conventional 3D FDEM with fine elements, it achieves a computational speedup of approximately two orders of magnitude, indicating the computational accuracy and efficiency of the proposed method in rock engineering simulation.
[69] Bo Han,Genqiang Peng,Chunlei Zhang ,等.3D FDEM investigation of horizontal bearing behavior and pile-rock interface failure mechanisms in offshore wind turbine rock-socketed monopile foundations[J].Ocean Engineering,2025,341, Part 1 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Offshore wind energy is recognized for its huge renewable potential. Rock-socketed monopile foundation is usually used for large-capacity offshore wind turbines in shallow bedrock regions. However, current design methods for rock-socketed monopile in weathered rock seabed inadequately consider the influence of the failure mechanisms of pile-rock contact interface on the bearing behavior of pile foundation, leading to the bearing capacity of pile foundation is overestimated. This study conducts three-dimensional finite-discrete element method (FDEM) to simulate pile-rock interactions in moderately weathered rock seabeds. The calculation method of contact friction between the discrete elements is developed, and the failure mode of the pile-rock contact interface along the depth direction is innovatively investigated. The results show that the deformation process of rock mass can be divided into three stages: synergistic deformation, cracking in tensile zone and crushing failure in compressive zone. The horizontal bearing capacity exhibits a critical threshold relationship with embedment depth, showing negligible improvement beyond specific depth increments. The FDEM simulation method at three-dimensional level can more accurately simulate the horizontal bearing behavior of the rock foundation seabed along the depth direction, providing critical theoretical support for safety assessment of the rock-socketed monopile foundation of offshore wind turbines.
[70] Tong Ye,Fulin Li,Congying Li ,等.Machine learning-FDEM-driven rapid identification and modeling of tunnel surrounding rock strength[J].Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology,2025,166 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Tunnelling in severely weathered zones is prone to collapse, making the rapid assessment of surrounding rock weathering and accurate prediction of rock mass strength essential for scientific tunnel design and proactive risk management. This study proposes an integrated X-ray fluorescence − Machine learning- finite-discrete element method (XRF-ML-FDEM) for surrounding rock strength identification and modeling. The approach leverages XRF testing to obtain geological information from the rock mass ahead, employs an enhanced neural network (NRBO-BPNN) to establish the correlation between elemental composition and rock strength, and further utilizes the Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm-II (NSGA-II) algorithm to convert geochemical information into numerical parameters for FDEM simulations. This enables direct geochemical-to-FDEM modeling. A case study of a granite mine in Wenshang County confirms that the proposed method can effectively predict the strength of weathered granite. Moreover, incorporating additional field XRF data can improve its accuracy and generalization ability.
[71] Tong Ye,Chunshun Zhang,Zhuang Chen ,等.Mohr-Coulomb strength and FDEM parameter determination of weathered granite via optimized neural network and deep learning[J].International Journal of Rock Mechanics and Mining Sciences,2025,194 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The traditional finite discrete element method (FDEM) is less applied in practical engineering-scale modeling due to its complex input parameter calibration process, poor prediction ability of calibration techniques, and insufficient description of material plastic damage. This study proposed a novel FDEM model enriched with the Mohr-Coulomb (MC) model and applied the neural network method to standardize the input parameters. The method enables rapid calibration of input parameters for various rock materials and accurately predicts their plastic development and failure modes, thereby enhancing the adaptability of FDEM in complex engineering scenarios. First, the Newton-Raphson-Based Optimizer (NRBO)-Back Propagation Neural Network (BPNN) method is employed to establish the correspondence between input parameters and Unconfined Compressive Strength (UCS) and Brazilian Tensile Strength (BTS) results. Subsequently, the Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm II (NSGA-II) is used to manage and assign numerical parameters to match the target rock strength. Notably, by introducing failure mode parameters, the method refines the FDEM's description of different failure modes in weathered granites. Finally, the consistency between experimental and numerical results demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed approach. This work successfully addresses the rapid calibration of FDEM input parameters using machine learning and overcomes the limitations of traditional models in describing the plastic development of rock materials.
[72] Sun, Lei,Grasselli, Giovanni .Investigation of the frost-induced shallow alpine rockfall process using 3D FDEM[M],2024,American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA)
摘要：Increasing rockfall activities in alpine areas have been observed under the global climate change circumstance. One widely accepted explanation of the alpine rockfall is that the warming and thawing of ice-rich bedrock permafrost decreases effective shear strength and destabilizes rock substrates in unusual hot summers. However, small but frequent shallow collapses are also widely observed in mountainous areas when the temperature decreases in late autumn or cold winter. The research work presented herein proposes a numerical framework for simulating the frost heaving/cracking process and revealing the related shallow alpine rockfall mechanism, based on the three-dimensional (3D) combined finite discrete element method (FDEM), where complex coupled thermal-mechanical processes at low-temperature are considered, e.g., the heat transfer, water-ice transition, ice-rock interaction, and cracking. Results suggest that shallow collapses are observed when the temperature decreases in late autumn or cold winter. Cracks initiate and propagate in the rock mass, driven by the ice-rock interaction in cold seasons, deteriorate the structure stability and induce shallow rockfall. Knowledge of long-term thermal/water evolution of a rock slope therefore provides valuable insight into progressive rock deformation and related alpine rockfall hazards. Copyright 2024 ARMA, American Rock Mechanics Association.
[73] Li, Hongda,Lu, Yunhu,Li, Ji ,等.Deformation and failure mechanism of ultra-deep dolomite and FDEM numerical simulation[M],2024,American Rock Mechanics Association (ARMA)
摘要：The mechanism of rock deformation and failure in ultra-deep reservoirs is unclear, so this article takes ultra-deep dolomite as the research object and conducts rock mechanics experiments. Based on the damage variable theory model of Weibull distribution, the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is used to numerically simulate the deformation and failure of dolomite. The results show that: (1) The compressive strength of ultra-deep dolomite is relatively high, and the failure is mainly brittle shear failure. Under high temperature and low confining pressure, the failure of dolomite exhibits a high angle shear fracture, accompanied by the development of secondary fractures. Under high temperature and high confining pressure, the failure mode of dolomite is often accompanied by other shear fractures in addition to one main shear fracture. (2) In the initial deformation stage, the linear characteristics of ultra-deep dolomite are more obvious. As the compression deformation deepens, the internal damage of the rock intensifies, gradually transitioning from elastic deformation to plastic deformation. The maximum damage rate occurs near the peak failure point and the fractures are formed at the macro level. In the post peak stage, the internal damage rate of the rock rapidly slows down and gradually reaches the residual strength. Copyright 2024 ARMA, American Rock Mechanics Association.
[74] 贾永杰 .含褶皱巷道围岩破裂碎胀大变形机理FDEM数值模拟研究[J].煤炭与化工,2023,46 (8):15-19
摘要：巷道频繁遭遇褶皱构造,采用有限元离散元耦合数值模拟方法(FDEM)研究含褶皱巷道围岩破裂碎胀大变形机理。首先改进了FDEM剪切应力峰后软化本构模型,使其在压剪应力状态下保持残余剪应力,随后采用余弦函数y=acos(x)建立不同形态的褶皱构造数值模型,最后采用改进的FDEM数值模拟程序研究了不同地应力侧压系数λ(λ=0.5、2.0)和不同褶皱形态下(a=0、0.5 m和1.5 m)的各向同性围岩体破裂碎胀大变形机理。结果表明,对于各向同性岩体,褶皱形态的影响微弱,均呈现X型共轭剪切破坏并伴随拉伸断裂,断裂块体沿剪切带的滑移剪胀及破碎块体的翻转大运动造成破碎岩块的体积膨胀,发生破裂碎胀性大变形。
[75] 黄鹏 .砌体结构抗震性能的有限离散元分析[D],2023
摘要：由砌体结构发展可知,干缝砌体砌筑方法是人类设计历史上最古老、耐用以及最广泛的建筑方法,采用简单砌块建造的古代建筑遗迹遍布世界各地。干缝砌体结构在地震作用下的力学行为,具有高度的非线性和非连续性。干缝砌体结构的覆盖面积很广,很难针对所有类型的干缝砌体结构进行抗震性能的分析,因此,本文针对干缝砌体结构的主要受力结构(砌体墙、柱和柱廊结构)进行了抗震性能研究,以便获得砌体结构抗震性能最一般的规律。 有限离散元法(Combined finite-discrete element method,简称FDEM)是近年来比较流行的一种数值方法,其将结构视为一系列离散体的集合,在分析结构的非连续力学行为方面有其独特的优势。 本文采用FDEM研究干缝砌体结构的抗震性能,验证了FDEM分析干缝砌体结构抗震性能的可靠性和鲁棒性。在验证的基础上,对一面全尺寸的门户墙和庞贝柱廊结构进行了抗震性能的研究。通过研究发现,对于干缝砌体墙而言,孔洞面积的增大会使得干缝砌体墙的一阶抗震性能下降,窗洞面积的扩大会使得干缝砌体墙的抗震性能下降的更快。当干缝砌体墙的砌块表面发生退化时,干缝砌体墙结构的一阶抗震性能将会下降。因此,在今后对墙体的设计过程中,要严格的控制门户墙孔洞的总面积,尤其是窗洞的面积,而且对于已建成的干缝砌体墙结构要及时的进行维护,对增强干缝砌体墙结构的抗震性能有很大的好处。当倾斜试验的倾斜方向发生改变时,干缝砌体墙结构的破坏模态会发生改变,但是对干缝砌体墙结构的一阶抗震性能的影响较小。 对庞贝柱廊而言,地震波的地面峰值加速度(PGA)大小和地震波的主频对庞贝柱廊的破坏模式有很大的影响,PGA越大,庞贝柱廊的摇摆和滑动响应越明显,较高主频更容易激发庞贝柱廊的结构振动;较小的PGA下,庞贝柱廊的运动响应主要以摇摆为主,更小的主频也更有利于庞贝柱廊维持其自身的稳定。同时,当庞贝柱廊的砌块因环境因素退化时,砌块表面的退化和砌块材料本身的开裂,都会使得庞贝柱廊的抗震性能下降。在对庞贝柱廊的抗震性能进行分析后,发现分段梁的存在是影响庞贝柱廊抗震性能的关键,在加固庞贝柱廊的分段梁使之成为一体的长梁后,对庞贝柱廊再次进行抗震性能研究,结果表明,加固方案是有效的。这也为今后对庞贝柱廊的维护和修复提供了借鉴。
[76] Cao, Zhisong,Zhang, Xiaobo,Ma, Yongli ,等.Study of Anisotropic Behavior and Failure Characteristics of Layered Rock Based on Finite-Discrete Element Method[J].International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics,2026,50 (4):1952-1968,WILEY
摘要：The bedding planes in layered rock masses are critical structures that control strength and stability. This study systematically investigates the strength and deformation characteristics of layered rock under different confined pressures using the FDEM method. Based on the global embedded cohesive element in Abaqus, the differentiated characterization of bedding planes and rock matrix was achieved, and numerical specimens of layered rock samples were constructed. To comprehensively reveal the mesoscopic failure mechanisms of layered rock under different confined pressures, the precise discrimination of crack dynamic thresholds based on material properties was achieved through Python. Simultaneously, the damage distribution of layered rock is obtained, which shows the spatial distribution of shear and tension damage intuitively. The results show that the compressive strength exhibits U-shaped with the bedding inclination. The compressive strength, elastic modulus, and peak strain demonstrate an approximately linear relationship with the increase in confined pressure. The new discriminant threshold obtained by the study can effectively distinguish the damage modes, and under different confined pressures, the proportion of crack types and the proportion of cracks at the matrix and bedding plane are significantly dependent on the bedding inclination. Meanwhile, the failure mechanism of the samples can be effectively characterized by the spatial distribution characteristics of shear and tension damage. Finally, the applicability of the proposed method is verified by comparing the results with published literature.
[77] Lingbao Hu,Fuzeng Wang,Feng Jiang ,等.Study on the influence of mineral composition on the mechanical properties of granite based on FDEM-GBM method[J].Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory,2023,129 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The macroscopic mechanical properties and crack propagation of rocks are significantly affected by the micro-scale heterogeneity of rocks. In this study, a two-dimensional tensile/shear fracture model to simulate the nonlinear behavior of grain boundaries through a combined finite-discrete element method based on the grain model (FDEM-GBM). The purpose of this model was to investigate the effects of mineral composition on rock mechanical properties and fracture extension. To calibrate the micromechanical parameters of the cohesive elements within the numerical rock model, the Plackett–Burman design and response surface method were employed. Furthermore, the study analyzed the effects of different mineral compositions on the macro-mechanical characteristics of rocks and attempted to interpret the results from the perspective of fracture evolution. The results demonstrated that the PB design-response surface design-iterative optimization method successfully enabled the calibration of the required microscopic parameters in the FDEM-GBM model. Under uniaxial compression loading, damage primarily occurred inside the crystal, with a dominant mode of tensile failure at the stress peak. Additionally, an increase in feldspar mineral content generally led to a decreasing trend in the uniaxial compressive strength and elastic modulus of the rock model. This changing pattern may be associated with the greater presence of internal cracks within feldspar minerals and relatively fewer cracks in quartz minerals. © 2023
[78] Liu, Jianxun,Hu, Taixue,Ma, Xikun ,等.Insight into the Crack Evolution Characteristics Around the Ridged PDC Cutter During Rock Breaking Based on the Finite-Discrete Element Method[J].Processes,2025,13 (10),MDPI
摘要：The ridged cutter, a highly representative non-planar PDC cutter known for its strong impact resistance and wear durability, has demonstrated significant effectiveness in enhancing the rate of penetration (ROP) in hard, highly abrasive, and interbedded soft-hard formations. Understanding the crack evolution is fundamental to revealing the rock-breaking mechanism of ridged PDC cutters. To date, studies on rock breaking with ridged cutters have largely focused on macroscopic experimental observations, lacking an in-depth understanding of the crack evolution characteristics during the rock fragmentation process. This study employs the Finite-Discrete Element Method (FDEM) to establish a three-dimensional numerical model for simulating the interaction between the ridged cutter and the rock. By analyzing crack propagation paths, stress distribution, and the stiffness degradation factor (SDEG), the initiation, propagation patterns, and sequence of cracks around the cutter are investigated. The results indicate the following outcomes: (1) The ridged cutter breaks rock mainly by tensioning and shearing, while the conventional planar cutter breaks the rock by shearing. (2) The rock-breaking process proceeds in three stages: compaction, micro-failure, and volumetric fragmentation. (3) Crack evolution around the cutter follows the rule of "tension-initiated and shear-propagation";that is, tensile damage first generates at the front of the crack due to tensile stress concentration, whereas shear damage subsequently occurs at the rear under high shear stress. Finally, mixed tensile-shear macro-cracks are generated. (4) The spatial distribution of cracks exhibits strong regional heterogeneity. The zone ahead of the cutter contains mixed tensile-shear cracks, forming upward-concave cracks, horizontal cracks, and oblique cracks at 45 degrees. The sub-cutter zone is dominated by tensile cracks;the zone on the flank side of the cutter consists of a radial stress field, accompanied by
[79] Penghui Wang,Chunning Ji,Xiping Sun ,等.Development and test of FDEM–FLOW-3D—A CFD–DEM model for the fluid–structure interaction of Accropode TM blocks under wave loads[J].Ocean Engineering,2024,303 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, a new coupled Computational Fluid Dynamics-Discrete Element Method (CFD–DEM) model was developed to investigate the stability of Accropode<sup>TM</sup> blocks on a sloping breakwater under wave loads. The widely used CFD software FLOW-3D was customized by integrating it with the combined Finite-Discrete Element Method (FDEM) code, which accurately simulates the complex contact and interlocking behavior between multiple polyhedron blocks. The coupling strategy employed in this model involved the FDEM code updating the contact forces and torques at each time step, while FLOW-3D simulated the wave-structure interaction, and then calculated the position and velocity of the blocks for the next time step. Key information exchange between the two codes was facilitated through shared files. To validate the stability and accuracy of the CFD–DEM model, a series of cases were conducted. The results showed good agreement with theoretical results, demonstrating the high accuracy of the model. Furthermore, a representative case involving the interaction between waves and Accropode<sup>TM</sup> blocks on a sloping breakwater was analyzed to evaluate the capabilities of the CFD–DEM model. The time histories of block displacement, wave force, and contact force were examined. The findings revealed that blocks located within one wave height above and below the still water level experienced more disturbances compared to other blocks, which aligns with engineering practices. These results collectively demonstrate that the presented CFD–DEM model is capable of simulating the complex wave-structure interactions with a reasonable level of accuracy. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[80] Youlin Qin,Li Yu,Mingnian Wang ,等.Intelligent optimization of TBM cutter spacing and FDEM-based investigation of rock breakage considering brittleness[J].Underground Space,2025,23 (4):379-402,Higher Education Press
摘要：Cutter spacing is a key factor influencing the efficiency of TBM ***,rock brittleness,as a critical indicator of rock fracture,significantly influences fragmentation behavior and rock-breaking *** study investigates the influence of rock brittleness on rock-breaking through numerical penetration experiments based on the hybrid finite-discrete element method(FDEM)and proposes four intelligent hybrid models to optimize cutter *** results show that as the rock brittleness index(BI)increases from 4.731 to 32.588,the count,depth,width,and proportion of tensile cracks increase,and crack propagation shifts from horizontal to oblique *** cutter spacing(90–110 mm)is optimal for generating tensile *** rock-breaking force increases significantly with higher BI;for instance,at 80 mm spacing,the maximum force for rock with a BI of 13.134 is 5.51 times that for rock with a BI of *** influence of BI on cutter work and specific energy(SE)is more substantial than the effect of cutter *** BI increases,both cutter work and SE rise *** the proposed models,the particle swarm optimization and extreme gradient boosting(PSO-XGBoost)model demonstrates the highest performance,achieving an R2 of 0.994,VAF of 99.418%,RMSE of 0.987,and MAPE of 5.217%on the test *** optimization method for cutter spacing is proposed based on this model.
[81] Chen, Xiangxiang,Chen, Xudong,Chan, Andrew ,等.A FDEM Parametric Investigation on the Impact Fracture of Monolithic Glass[J].Buildings,2022,12 (3),MDPI
摘要：Due to the brittleness, monolithic glass may fracture under impact, resulting in catastrophic sequences. The combined finite-discrete element method, i.e., FDEM, is employed to investigate both the oblique and the perpendicular impact failures of monolithic glass parametrically, particularly the soda-lime glass. Using FDEM, glass is discretised into discrete elements where a finite element formulation is incorporated, leading to accurate evaluation of the contact forces and structural deformation. Following the basic theories of the FDEM, a cohesive Mode I fracture model of glass is briefly introduced. Numerical examples are given for the verification of the employed fracture model and the applicability of the FDEM, and comparisons have been made against the computational and experimental results in the literature. The investigated parameters include the impact velocity, the impact angle, the material properties of glass, etc. The obtained results not only revealed the impact fracture mechanism of soda-lime glass but also provided guidance for its design and manufacturing.
[82] Lanhao Zhao,Yingtang Di,Linyu Shao ,等.An immersed finite-discrete element method (IFDEM) framework for water entry with fracture dynamics[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2025,442 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Water entry is a current but challenging topic with numerous applications in engineering. However, little work has been devoted to water entry problems involving contact and fracture dynamics of solid systems. This work presents a complete immersed finite-discrete element method (IFDEM) framework that contains multiphase fluid dynamics, elastodynamics and a fracture model for crack initiation and propagation, fragmentation, collision and the resultant random distribution of solid debris. The fluid domain governed by the Navier-Stokes equations is discretized by fixed Cartesian grid, while the immersed violently evolved fluid-solid interfaces are tracked by a set of Lagrangian points efficiently through the improved direct forcing immersed boundary method (IBM). The formulation of the bidirectional interaction between multiphase fluid and breakable bodies is derived from the exact velocity boundary condition, and the physical law, i.e., the true divergence-free condition could be satisfied. In addition to capturing the free water surface by the conservative level set (CLS) method that has been widely applied in multiphase flow, the surface normal correction is carried out by a signed distance function so that both the conservation and accuracy could be ensured. The finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is developed to handle the elastic deformation, fragmentation and contact mechanism of solid bodies that are divided into finite elements with zero-thickness joint elements embedded in each pair of adjacent elements. Therefore, this complete approach could cope with the entire continuous-discontinuous evolution process of complex solid systems during water entry, and the strong coupling is enhanced through a stagger iterative technique by solving the fluid and solid domain repeatedly until they converge. The present solver is then tested against a number of benchmark problems, which demonstrate the physical accuracy and reliability. Additional investigations are comple
[83] R. Bravo,J.L. Pérez–Aparicio .Combined Finite–Discrete element method for parameter identification of masonry structures[J].Construction and Building Materials,2023,396 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Masonry structures are constructions made of discontinuous blocks that require unique numerical methods incorporating contact, friction, and cohesion models for their analysis. Given the large number of aging structures of this type still in use, there is a demand to combine these numerical methods with optimization algorithms to help in structural health monitoring. This paper combines discrete and finite methods with genetic algorithms for parametrizing two masonry structures. The first is a bridge with a large number of blocks, the material properties of which are estimated with a small error. Since the loads are low, the mortar's properties are irrelevant. The second is a buried ogival vault;starting from only four pieces of experimental data from the literature and related with the failure loads, the material and contact properties are calculated. From them, many other failure loads are again iteratively calculated and favorably compared with the rest of the data. To further validate the inverse problem, the computed properties are used for several runs of the same vault but under different loads, obtaining again an almost perfect agreement with the experiments. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[84] Chenyu Xu,Quansheng Liu,Weiqiang Xie ,等.Investigation on artificial boundary problem in the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM)[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2022,151 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM) is an advanced finite and discrete element coupling method, which can commendably simulate the large deformation and fracture process of materials. The explicit solution method in FDEM is naturally suitable for solving dynamic problems, and the key to dynamic analysis is to establish artificial boundary conditions that can be prepared to simulate infinite domain motion. At present, there is only the viscous boundary condition in the original FDEM, but this is only applicable for solving the internal source wave problems (e.g., blasting, mechanical vibration), and there are no artificial boundary conditions for solving the external source wave problems (e.g., earthquake). Therefore, three artificial boundary conditions have been developed in the present study to enhance the ability of FDEM to conduct dynamic response analysis. Firstly, the basic principle of FDEM and the existing viscous boundary condition are briefly introduced. Then, three newly added boundary conditions are introduced in sequence: (1) viscous-spring boundary condition, which can absorb stress wave energy at the boundary and restore the residual displacement to meet the actual engineering;(2) free-field boundary condition, which is coupled with free-field motion to absorb scattered waves at the lateral boundaries of the model, and the algorithms of mesh matching retrieval and coupling calculation are also introduced;(3) static-dynamic unified boundary condition, which can accurately transform the fixed boundary under the quasi-static analysis into the non-reflective boundary condition under the dynamic analysis. Finally, several classic models are built to verify the feasibility of the newly added boundary conditions. The comparison with the shaking table test also shows that the improved FDEM can be used for seismic response analysis under actual earthquakes. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
[85] Zhan, Chengsheng,Zhao, Hongru,Xuan, Shenyu ,等.Numerical Simulation of Dynamic Ice Mechanical Properties of Sea Ice Based on 2 D FDEM[J].武汉理工大学学报（交通科学与工程版）,2025,49 (5):1007-1011,Wuhan Ligong Daxue
摘要：Two-dimensional finite discrete element method (FDEM) was uscd to simulate the Brazilian Splitting test of sea ice. Through the Simulation of Brazilian Splitting test, the fracture failure mode, mechanical response and its relationship with loading speed of ice specimens were studicd. The rcsults show that with the increase of loading rate, there is no obvious difference in the failure morphology of the specimens in Brazilian Splitting test. In addition, with the increase of loading rate, the maximum loading load is quite different. © 2025 Wuhan Ligong Daxue. All rights reserved.
[86] Du, Chenglei,Liu, Quansheng,Lei, Yiming ,等.The Calibration of Microscopic Parameters for the 3D Finite-Discrete Element Method[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2024,57 (3):2195-2212,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：The microscopic parameters in the numerical method have an important influence on the results and computational efficiency of the models. The existing calibration methods of microscopic parameters in the finite-discrete element method (FDEM) are based on two-dimensional (2D) FDEM model, and there is a lack of calibration methods for microscopic parameters suitable for three-dimensional (3D) FDEM model. Therefore, this paper proposes a fast and convenient calibration method for the microscopic parameters of the 3D FDEM model. First, a tangential contact force calculation algorithm based on the total normal force is proposed and verified by the slider model. Subsequently, assuming that the penalty parameter of the solid element is equal to the penalty parameter of the joint element, the relationship between the normal penalty parameter and the tangential penalty parameter, and the relationship between the normal penalty parameter and the Young's modulus are studied using several numerical models. Moreover, the tensile strength and crack propagation path of the Brazilian disc model under different fracture energy parameter combinations are studied, and the fracture energy parameters are calibrated. Then, the triaxial compression model under different confining pressures is used to calibrate the cohesion c and the internal friction angle phi. In addition, the effects of loading rate, mesh size and time step on the model strength and calculation time are considered, respectively. Finally, the numerical simulation of dynamic Brazilian splitting test is carried out to verify the reliability of the parameter calibration method proposed in this paper. Although the calibration method of microscopic parameters is not unique, the microscopic parameter calibration method has important reference significance and is conducive to the application of 3D FDEM model. A tangential contact force calculation algorithm based on the total normal contact force is proposed and verified by the
[87] Zheng, Yun,Ma, Bin,Lu, Jian ,等.Investigating dynamic response and failure mechanisms of anti-dip bedding rock slopes: an integrated experimental and finite-discrete element method[J].Natural Hazards,2026,122 (8):336-336,SPRINGER
摘要：Earthquakes are a key trigger for the instability of anti-dip bedding rock slopes (ABRSs). However, the failure mechanisms and controlling factors of these slopes under seismic action remain unclear. To address this, a dynamic boundary input method for slope shaking table tests was developed using the FDEM software MultiFracS, and its feasibility was verified by comparison with experimental results. Building on this, the dynamic response and failure mechanisms of ABRSs were systematically investigated under various slope geometric and seismic wave parameters. Furthermore, the distribution of failure surfaces under seismic loading was analyzed and compared with that under static conditions. The results show that the acceleration elevation amplification effect is mainly concentrated above two-thirds of the slope height. In contrast, the surface amplification effect occurs primarily within 0.5 times the slope height from the slope surface. Although flexural toppling remains the dominant failure mode under seismic action, the failure surface may develop at both the slope toe and the shoulder region. This characteristic is mainly controlled by seismic wave parameters and shows little correlation with slope geometric parameters. This study provides a theoretical basis for the seismic design and reinforcement of anti-dip bedding rock slopes.
[88] 万串串,郑志杰,黄丹 ,等.基于二维FDEM的金属矿破碎矿体进路法开挖方式与参数优化研究[J].矿业研究与开发,2024,44 (3):16-22
摘要：采用有限元-离散元耦合方法(FDEM),建立进路尺寸为4.5m×4m的两个模型,对比分析机械开挖和爆破开挖两种条件下,岩体的变形破坏过程与稳定性,以此确定破碎矿体合理的开挖方式。受水平应力与垂直应力影响,进路跨度与高度方向影响不同。分别建立4m×4m、4m×5m、5m×5m、6m×5m、5m×6m进路尺寸的分析模型,模拟机械开挖进路的围岩变形破坏规律与稳定性。根据关键点位移突变判据与围岩破坏范围突变判据,最终得出的结论如下:机械开挖进路尺寸不大于5m×5m时,围岩较稳定;机械开挖进路尺寸大于5m×5m时,机械开挖后围岩稳定性大大降低;机械开挖进路尺寸为5m×6m时,围岩稳定性最低。研究过程与成果可为破碎矿体进路法开采的矿山提供借鉴,指导矿山进行合理高效的生产。
[89] Benbo Sun,Shaowei Hu,Juan Wang ,等.Regional slope stability and slope failure mechanics under strong seismic events in the upper reaches of Yellow River cascade reservoir dams via the SEM–FDEM–SPH coupling approach[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2025,186 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Early warning and hazardous point monitoring for large-scale slopes under strong ground motions are pivotal tools for safeguarding assets and stakeholders. In addition, the local-scale failure mechanisms and processes for earthquake-induced landslides can provide detailed information for decision making and planning. Providing regional seismic wave fields is critical for assessing regional slope stability and local-scale earthquake-induced landslides. Currently, most stable assessments and mechanism analyses of landslides use specified pseudo-accelerations or a small number of earthquake records because earthquake records are often very limited. Notably, these approaches cannot fully consider the spatial differences in seismology characteristics at various locations. In other words, there is always a generation gap between earthquake action and slope response and stability assessment. To reduce this gap, a hybrid simulation framework is created via the spectral element method (SEM), Bishop method, finite-discrete element method (FDEM), and smoothed-particle hydrodynamics (SPH) for large- and local-scale slopes in the upper reaches of Yellow River cascade reservoir dams. The SEM and Bishop methods enable straightforward estimation of seismic stability for regional slope systems subjected to earthquakes across 19 different scenarios by considering the sources, propagation paths, regional topographies, and geological conditions of the existing uncertainties. The weak coupling strategy of the time domain reduction method is implemented to achieve local-scale failure processes of earthquake-induced landslides via SEM–FDEM–SPH. The results indicate that the multiscale framework can realize regional earthquake landslide stability assessment and the chain disaster simulation of local unstable slopes. For projects involving regional-scale slope seismic stability assessment and local-scale mechanistic analysis, a physics-based mechanism framework for simulation studies and ri
[90] Yachong Xu,Yan Zhuge,Md. Rajibul Karim ,等.Structural analysis of a 3D dry-stack tyre wall by finite-discrete element method[J].Engineering Structures,2023,281 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper adopted a combined finite and discrete element method to investigate the structural performance of tyre walls built with tyre-encased-soil elements (TESEs). A full-scale three-dimensional tyre wall was simulated using Abaqus/Explicit, and the detailed procedures were discussed. The numerical model was verified against the experimental results, and the wall's quasi-static structural responses under monotonic and cyclic loading were examined. Numerical modelling provided a deeper understanding of the tyre wall behaviour that was not captured experimentally due to time and equipment-related constraints, i.e., forces at the boundaries, wall permanent deformation profile, change in size of the gap openings during loading and unloading, as well as the stress distributions during different stage of loadings. From laboratory experimental observation, the tyre wall had a rotational gap opening mostly located at the mid-height portions due to the lateral loading, and this mechanism has been well replicated by the numerical modelling. The tyre wall was found similar to masonry walls regarding the force–displacement mechanism, however, tyre walls were distinct from masonry walls as the compressive crushing of a wall unit is an unlikely failure mechanism. The numerical modelling also showed that the forces at the boundaries enhanced the lateral load resistance of the wall. The results will encourage built environment professionals to adopt tyre walls in low-rise building constructions, which can assist in solving tyre recycling/storage problems and promote a more sustainable construction practice. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[91] Penghai Deng,Quansheng Liu,Haifeng Lu .A novel joint element parameter calibration procedure for the combined finite-discrete element method[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2022,276, Part B ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The combined finite–discrete element method (FDEM) has been widely used to simulate the fracture process of rock materials. The FDEM simulation requires many material parameters which should be calibrated through laboratory tests or directly cited from previous conclusions. However, it is difficult to obtain the joint element parameters, including the joint element penalty P<sub>f</sub> and the type I and type II fracture energies G<sub>I</sub> and G<sub>II</sub>. Therefore, a novel calibration method for the above three parameters must be proposed. First, P<sub>f</sub> can be obtained by uniaxial compression simulation, and P<sub>f</sub> = 30E (E is Young's modulus) is applicable for homogeneous and isotropic rock materials. Second, an accurate G<sub>I</sub> value in the static loading state can be obtained by Brazilian disc simulation with a central preprepared failure path. Third, an accurate G<sub>II</sub> value can be calibrated by the modified variable-angle shear model. Finally, the G<sub>I</sub> and G<sub>II</sub> values with different element sizes can be calculated by the proposed linear equations. In addition, normal uniaxial and triaxial compression simulations can be used to verify the reliability of the calibrated G<sub>I</sub> and G<sub>II</sub> values. Moreover, the tunnel excavation simulation results show that the joint element parameters calibrated by the modified method can achieve cross-scale simulation, and the simulation results are more accurate. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
[92] Zhang, Taiyu,Zhu, Zhiwu,Ma, Yue ,等.Paper Rate-dependent FDEM numerical simulation of dynamic tensile fracture and failure behavior in frozen soil[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2025,178 ,ELSEVIER SCI LTD
摘要：Considering that the dynamic fracture and failure behaviors of frozen soil play a crucial role in the safety and stability of engineering foundations in cold regions, this study aimed to reveal the dynamic tensile mechanical properties and damage failure mechanisms of frozen soil under impact loading. Dynamic Brazilian disk (BD) tests were conducted on frozen soil at different temperatures and loading velocities using a split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) apparatus, followed by numerical simulations using the finite discrete element method (FDEM), focusing on the dynamic tensile deformation characteristics, failure patterns, tensile strength, and energy dissipation mechanisms of the frozen soil. The experimental results indicated that the dynamic tensile mechanical properties of frozen soil were influenced by both temperature and loading velocity. As the temperature decreased and loading velocity increased, the tensile strength of frozen soil significantly increased and showed a linear correlation with the loading velocity. At lower loading velocities, the cracks tended to propagate along the paths of least resistance, forming fewer but longer macrocracks. With increasing loading velocities, the number of cracks markedly increased, and their distribution became more diffuse, leading to a greater extent of failure in the frozen soil. An exponential damage cohesive interface model that considers rate effects was proposed to describe the dynamic tensile fracture mechanical behavior of frozen soil accurately. This model addresses the rate sensitivity of frozen soil and effectively accounts for the temperature effect by considering the volume of ice content and cryogenic suction. A comparison of the FDEM numerical simulation results with the experimental data indicated a good consistency in the overall trends, thus validating the effectiveness and applicability of the FDEM in simulating the dynamic tensile mechanical behavior of frozen soil.
[93] Jianguo Zhang,Yiming Lei,Yiwei Liu ,等.3D GPU-accelerated FDEM for fracturing and stability analysis of jointed rock masses due to tunnel excavation[J].Engineering Failure Analysis,2025,174 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The fracturing and instability of jointed rock masses during tunnel excavation is a complex process involving crack initiation, propagation, and intersection, as well as block spalling, overturning, and extrusion, which poses significant challenges to traditional continuous or discontinuous methods. Leveraging the hybrid Finite-Discrete Element Method (FDEM) and CUDA C/C++ programming model, this study develops a Ytunnel module within the 3D GPU-accelerated FDEM framework. The Ytunnel module incorporates approaches for in-situ stress generation, quasi-static excavation, and detailed rock joint characterization. The effectiveness of the developed method is first validated through two numerical examples: a homogeneous stratum excavation, which demonstrates close alignment with theoretical predictions of stress evolution, and a simulation of the classic URL test tunnel, which accurately captures field-observed damage zone. The failure process of surrounding rock in jointed rock masses caused by tunnel excavation is also investigated. The results reveal that the presence of joints plays a critical role in the fracturing and instability of surrounding rock. The 3D GPU-accelerated FDEM integrated with the Ytunnel module offers a powerful and versatile approach for investigating the complex behaviors of rock masses induced by tunnel excavation.
[94] Liu, Ke,Huang, Xiaolin,Xu, Ling .Characterization of the Mass Transport and Energy Conversion of a Rapid Long-Runout Loess Landslide Using the Finite-Discrete Element Method[J].Journal of Geophysical Research: Earth Surface,2025,130 (3),AMER GEOPHYSICAL UNION
摘要：Rapid long-runout loess landslides pose serious threats to human activities. However, associated kinematic processes, such as mass transport and energy conversion, are not fully understood, limiting disaster prediction and prevention. Herein, numerical models were established to quantitatively investigate the kinematic process of rapid long-runout loess landslides via the finite-discrete element method (FDEM). These models were calibrated according to the Dabuzi rapid long-runout loess landslide deposit and laboratory tests. We conducted systematic numerical simulations to explore the mass transport and energy conversion of a rapid long-runout landslide, focusing on the influences of the sliding volume and the traveling path topography undulation depicted by the fractal dimension. The rapid evolution of the mass structure from continuous to discontinuous, the transition from a solid state to fluid-like state, and the mutual influence of mass transport and energy conversion were quantitatively characterized during the landslide kinematic process. With increasing topographic surface's fractal dimension, the maximum displacement, maximum velocity, and volume expansion ratio of the landslide exhibited linear decreasing trends, and the accumulation morphology changed. Variations in these parameters with the sliding volume were opposite to those of the fractal dimension case, except for the deposit volume expansion ratio. Particularly, the surface mass always displayed extreme long-runout motion displacements. The mass transport characteristics, like the transition from acceleration to deceleration, were driven by the mutual conversion of potential energy to kinetic energy and the dissipation of friction and fracturing. The deceleration process was initially dominated by fracture energy dissipation and then by friction energy dissipation.
[95] Zheng, Yun,Wu, Runfu,Yan, Chengzeng ,等.Numerical study on flexural toppling failure of rock slopes using the finite discrete element method[J].Bulletin of Engineering Geology and the Environment,2024,83 (4):1-11,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：Flexural toppling is a quite complex and common failure mode of anti-dip bedding rock slopes (ABRSs), since it involves not only deformation of the intact rock but also sliding or opening of the joint and fracture of the rock layer. In this work, the finite discrete element method (FDEM) was used to study flexural toppling of ABRSs. The feasibility of FDEM to simulate flexural toppling was firstly verified by a model test. Then, parametric studies were carried out using the FDEM to investigate the influence of the angle of the joint, angle of the slope, and thickness of the rock layer on flexural toppling. Moreover, the failure surface of the slope undergoing flexural toppling was discussed. The results indicate that the failure surface may be a simple plane with an angle to the joint normal ranging from 9 to 23 degrees, or it may be a complex stepped form. The depth of the failure surface gradually increased with the increase in the angle of the rock layer. For less stable slopes against flexural toppling, two failure surfaces were formed within the slope, with the deep failure surface approximately parallel to the shallow one. The failure surface does not necessarily pass through the toe of the slope, but may also be located above it.
[96] 祁浩,李德建,李春晓 ,等.卸载速率对花岗岩岩爆破坏及能量特征影响的FDEM研究[J].采矿与安全工程学报,2024,41 (6):1254-1266
摘要：运用图像处理技术和有限元-离散元耦合方法(FDEM),构建了考虑矿物非均质的二维岩爆试验数值模型,参照岩爆试验加卸载方式和边界条件,模拟不同卸载速率条件下花岗岩岩爆试验,分析模型失稳破坏过程、裂纹扩展和能量转化特征,探究卸载速率对花岗岩岩爆特征的影响机制。研究结果表明:卸载速率越小,模型和试件破坏程度越低,动态破坏现象越不明显。卸载速率越低,裂纹扩展多发生于卸载过程中,并趋于30°~50°倾向扩展,张拉和拉剪混合裂纹占比减少,剪切裂纹占比增加,模型呈宏观剪切破坏。在失稳破坏阶段,上部加载板向模型输入大量的外力做功,可释放变形能全部释放,导致耗散能和动能突增,当卸载速率小于门槛值(1 MPa/时步)时,外力做功和动能水平明显下降,而耗散能水平略微提升,不同的能量变化率有所降低,能有效降低岩爆的突发性。
[97] Yan, Chengzeng,Wang, Tie,Gao, Yakun ,等.A Three-Dimensional Grouting Model Considering Hydromechanical Coupling Based on the Combined Finite-Discrete Element Method[J].International Journal of Geomechanics,2022,22 (11),ASCE-AMER SOC CIVIL ENGINEERS
摘要：In this paper, we present a three-dimensional (3D) grouting model based on the combined finite-discrete element method (FDEM). The 3D grouting model discretizes the problem domain into tetrahedral elements and joint elements, and the grout flows only in the broken joint elements, which satisfies the planar Poiseuille flow. By combining grout migration, FDEM mechanical cracking computation, and stress-induced fracture aperture variation in a graphics processing unit (GPU) parallel multiphysics FDEM software, called MultiFracS, the 3D grouting model can model rock cracking and the effect of hydromechanical (HM) coupling. First, a grouting example with analytical solutions is presented to validate the 3D grouting model. Then, we investigate the influence of several key parameters on grout penetration in fractured rock masses. The results reveal that the 3D grouting model can model grout migration, pressure distribution, grout-rock mass interaction, rock deformation, and crack initiation and propagation. Finally, the evolution of fracture geometry induced by grouting under different in situ stresses is studied. The numerical results present high coincidence with the in situ experimental results, demonstrating that the 3D grouting model is effective in dealing with fracture grouting.
[98] Huanling Wang,Yizhe Wu,Mei Li ,等.A novel FDEM-GSA method with applications in deformation and damage analysis of surrounding rock in deep-buried tunnels[J].Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology,2024,154 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In underground hydraulic tunnel engineering, particularly deep-buried projects, the deformations and stability of the surrounding rock are critical to the construction process. Due to the complex depositional environment of such tunnels, multiple factors influence the stability of the surrounding rock during construction. This paper proposes a novel hybrid method combining Finite-Discrete Element Method (FDEM) with Global Sensitivity Analysis (GSA) and machine learning. The FDEM model is used to establish an approximate relationship between input and output parameters, and its accuracy is validated through comparison with monitoring data. On the basis of data simulated by the FDEM model, a meta-model is developed by Particle Swarm Optimization-Extreme Gradient Boosting (PSO-XGBoost). 10,000 data sets are generated using the meta-model for Sobol sensitivity analysis. The proposed analysis framework is applied to study the deep-buried water diversion tunnel in the Central Yunnan Water Diversion Project (CYWDP). The results indicate that in deep-buried tunnel environments, as the tunnel depth increases, the dominant factor influencing the deformation of the surrounding rock transitions from tunnel depth to the mechanical properties of the rock itself. These findings provide valuable insights for optimizing construction plans in similar tunnel projects and offer a new perspective on sensitivity analysis frameworks based on numerical computations.
[99] Chengzeng Yan,Yakun Gao,Hui Guo .A FDEM based 3D discrete mixed seepage model for simulating fluid driven fracturing[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2022,140 :447-463,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper presents a 3D discrete mixed seepage model that considers the effect of fracture on pore seepage. We unify the 3D fracture-pore mixed seepage model and finite-discrete element method (FDEM) to build a coupled hydro-mechanical model to simulate the fluid-driven deformation and fracturing, which can also consider the influence of fracture propagation on fracture seepage and pore seepage. The model has been implemented in a GPU parallel multiphysics finite-discrete element software MultiFracS. For the continuum seepage problem, we conduct a parameter sensitivity analysis for the fluid exchange coefficient and propose the criterion for selecting the coefficient. Then, we verify the model to deal with 3D pore seepage in a continuum media, fracture-pore seepage in discontinuous media with a single fracture, and fracture-pore seepage in discontinuous media with multi-fractures. Finally, the coupled hydro-mechanical model is employed to study a one-dimensional consolidation and a hydraulic fracturing problem. The research shows that the simulation results are in good agreement with the analytical solutions and the experimental results, which verifies the effectiveness of the method for solving the 3D fracture-pore mixed seepage and the coupled hydro-mechanical model for dealing with seepage problems in fractured porous media and fluid-driven fracturing. © 2022 Elsevier Ltd
[100] Fatemeh Amiri,Navid Bahrani,Andrea Lisjak ,等.Influence of unloading-induced brittle damage on laboratory properties and behavior of hard rocks: Insights from the hybrid Finite-Discrete Element Method (FDEM)[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2024,176 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：It is known that rock cores drilled from high-stress environments experience a complex stress path. The induced tensile stresses within the cores may result in the formation of micro-cracks, potentially leading to incorrect estimation of their laboratory properties. In this research, the influence of coring stress path on damage formation and the consequent changes in the laboratory properties of intact rocks were investigated using a 2D numerical program based on the hybrid Finite-Discrete Element Method. For this purpose, two models with distinct grain geometries (triangular and Voronoi) were generated. They were initially calibrated against the laboratory properties of the undamaged Lac de Bonnet granite. The calibrated models were then subjected to a coring stress path to generate damage in the form of micro-cracks. The calibration process also involved the laboratory properties of damaged granite, focusing on capturing the nonlinearity in the stress–strain response due to crack closure during uniaxial loading. It was concluded that both models can effectively capture the formation and opening of micro-cracks during unloading, their closure during compressive loading, and the nonlinearity in the stress–strain response. However, the model with Voronoi grains more accurately represented the reduction in peak strength and Young’s modulus resulting from unloading-induced damage.