[1] 任黎,石拉,郑亚新 ,等.不饱和聚酯树脂包覆层的柱状单轴拉伸试验方法研究[J].兵器装备工程学报,2025,46 (3):25-32
摘要：针对固体推进剂包覆层的片状哑铃形试样在单轴拉伸试验过程中应力集中效应显著和试验结果离散性大的问题,提出了不饱和聚酯树脂包覆层的柱状拉伸试样设计方案。仿真模拟不同过渡半径下的片状试件和柱状试件,发现柱状式样在相同过渡半径下比片状试样更易断裂,特别在45 mm过渡半径下断裂时间最短;柱状试样的应力分布更均匀,集中区域较小。试验结果表明,柱状试样在-40、20、50℃的抗拉强度离散度为0.63%、0.41%和0.46%,伸长率离散度为0.70%、0.34%和0.51%;对比之下,片状试样抗拉强度离散度为2.03%、1.31%和1.26%,伸长率离散度为1.15%、1.05%和1.57%,柱状试样的有效数据离散度小于片状试样,实验数据有效率达92%。研究表明,柱状试样有效降低了应力集中导致的实验结果离散性;试样的最佳工程标距为12 mm,过渡半径为45 mm;柱状单轴拉伸试验方法有助于获得更可靠的测试结果。
[2] Lin, Weiren,Takahashi, Manabu .Occurrence of Permanent Strain of Granitic Rocks and Gabbro under Uniaxial Tension: Implicating Damages Undergone in Failure Process[J].Journal of the Society of Materials Science, Japan,2026,75 (3):179-185,Society of Materials Science Japan
摘要：In order to understand mechanisms of rock failure under uniaxial tension, we analyzed permanent strains occurred post ultimate failure in uniaxial tension tests for several plutonic rocks included tonalite, granodiorite, granite and gabbro following our previous studies which just analyzed the test data until the ultimate failure. Usually, a specimen under uniaxial tension test broke locally, but the other part of the specimen looked no obvious visual changes with that before uniaxial tension test. From the post failure stress - strain curves, we found that extensional permanent strains occurred in apparently intact parts of the broken specimens, i.e., the tensile stress was unloaded completely. In addition, the permanent strain occurred in both axial and latera directions, i.e., in directions parallel and perpendicular to uniaxial tensile loading. We interpret that the extensional permanent strain occurred by mixed cumulative effects of new microcrack occurrence and developing and/or opening of pre-existing microcracks accompanying with increase of the tensile stress. Therefore, these extensional permanent strains implicate ‘damages’ that the specimens undergone in their failure process under uniaxial tension. Consequently, the failure process of uniaxial tension may be considered as that the minor damages occurred over the entire part of the specimen at first, then a concentrated damage zone was formed and finally proceeded to the ultimate failure. © 2026 Society of Materials Science Japan. All rights reserved.
[3] de Alencar, Ana Teresa Santos,Galindo, Ruben,da Fonseca, Antonio Viana ,等.An experimental study of tensile deformation modulus obtained with the Brazilian test and direct tensile test[J].Bulletin of Engineering Geology and the Environment,2026,85 (4):249-249,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：The deformation modulus of rocks is usually estimated only by compression tests. However, most rocks show bi-modular behavior, consisting of deformation modulus having different values in compression and tension;usually in compression the deformation modulus is greater than tension. Due to the direct tensile test being a more complex test to carry out, the tensile strength is usually estimated by the indirect tensile test (Brazilian test). Consequently, there are researchers who propose methods estimating the tensile deformation modulus with the Brazilian test. In the present paper, the deformation modulus of Porto granite samples with different densities (weathering degree) was obtained in three different ways: in the uniaxial compression test, in the direct tensile test, and in the Brazilian test (diametric load) and then compared. From the results, it is concluded that in general the deformation modulus obtain only by the Brazilian test cannot be considered representative of direct traction.
[4] 冯伟杰,强洪夫,王学仁 ,等.HTPB推进剂/衬层单轴拉伸及损伤特性试验研究[J].固体火箭技术,2024,47 (4):478-484
摘要：为研究单轴拉伸过程中固体发动机矩形粘接试件在不同尺寸开口裂纹和加载速率下的力学行为,以及粘接界面在脱粘情况下推进剂/衬层/绝热层细观损伤特性,对端羟基聚丁二烯(HTPB)推进剂/衬层矩形粘接试件进行了开口裂纹尺寸15、20、25、35 mm,加载速率3.85、77.14、385.71 mm/min的单轴拉伸试验,分析了矩形粘接试件单轴拉伸的力学性能变化规律,并推导计算了最大抗拉强度以及界面能的变化情况,利用微CT分析了开口裂纹20 mm、77.14 mm/min条件下试件断裂端面细观形貌和内部孔隙特征。结果表明,单轴拉伸情况下矩形试件的力学性能和加载速率有关,开口裂纹尺寸20 mm,加载速率385.71 mm/min加载条件下最大抗拉强度为1.46 MPa,界面粘接能达到17.66 J。推进剂侧断面主要表现为明显的大孔洞,衬层/绝热层一侧断面有明显的空穴、孔隙和颗粒存在。在拉伸过程中推进剂损伤主要表现为颗粒基体脱湿和孔隙汇集,衬层/绝热层,损伤主要表现为大面积的基体撕裂。
[5] Van-Trung Pham,Thien-Kim Huynh,Le-Hung-Toan Do ,等.Mechanical responses of nanoporous silicene under uniaxial and biaxial tension: Effects of pore geometry and temperature[J].Mechanics Research Communications,2026,154 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The mechanical response and atomistic deformation mechanisms of nanoporous silicene membranes subjected to uniaxial and biaxial tensile loading are systematically investigated using molecular dynamics simulations. The investigation focuses on how porosity (size of the nanopores), the shape of the nanopores and temperature influence the Young’s modulus, ultimate tensile strength, and deformation mechanisms. Pristine silicene membrane exhibits ultimate strength of 5.66 N/m and 5.32 N/m under uniaxial tension along the armchair and zigzag orientations, respectively. For the biaxial tensile test, ultimate stress values are nearly the same for stretching in both the armchair and zigzag orientations. The findings reveal the presence of nanopores concentrates stress around the areas with vacancies, making destruction occur more easily compared to the perfect model. As a result, nanoporous silicene nanosheets demonstrate notably reduced mechanical properties while promoting brittle fracture. Increasing porosity results in monotonic degradation of both the Young’s modulus and tensile strength. Moreover, the fracture patterns are highly sensitive to pore geometry: nanopores with larger defect angles provide a broader distribution of high-stress atoms, thereby enhancing the load-bearing capacity and failure strain. Temperature significantly influences the behavior of silicene membranes, since increased heat conditions amplify atomic vibrations, diminish interatomic interactions, and substantially decrease strength, stiffness, and fracture strain. These discoveries offer detailed insights into the structure-property connections of defect-engineered silicene, serving as a guide for the creation of two-dimensional silicon-based nanomechanical and nanoelectronic devices.
[6] Raphaël Pérot,Vincent Grolleau,Dirk Mohr .Asymmetric Hole Expansion Test (aHET) for Direct Measurement of Orientation-Dependent Tensile Fracture Strain[J].Solid State Phenomena,2026,388 :91-100
摘要：<p class="normal-text"> The flangeability of sheared edges in sheet metal forming is commonly evaluated using the ISO 16630 Hole Expansion Test (HET), in which fracture initiates at the edge under predominantly uniaxial tensile loading. For high-quality edges, this test can be interpreted as providing the strain to fracture under proportional uniaxial tension; however, the measured fracture strain is restricted to a single material-dependent sheet orientation. In this work, a novel experimental approach is proposed to directly measure the uniaxial tensile fracture strain in a predefined sheet orientation using digital image correlation (DIC). The method, termed the Asymmetric Hole Expansion Test (aHET), is derived from the standard HET through the introduction of a novel asymmetric punch geometry. This modification promotes accelerated edge stretching along a controlled direction, enabling orientation-specific characterization of fracture strain. The capability of the aHET to characterize direction-dependent strains to fracture under uniaxial tension is demonstrated on a DP450 dual-phase steel. The consistent fracture initiation at the edge along the predefined fracture direction, combined with the low scatter of the measured fracture strains across repeated tests for all three investigated sheet orientations, demonstrates that the aHET is well suited for identifying the strain to fracture under proportional uniaxial tensile loading for the calibration of fracture initiation models. </p>
[7] Khameneh, F.,Abedini, A.,Narayanan, A. ,等.On the Characterization of Fracture in Uniaxial Tension: Experiments and Modeling of DP1180 Steel Sheet[J].Journal of Materials Engineering and Performance,2024,33 (24):14203-14234,SPRINGER
摘要：The fracture characterization of ductile sheet metals under uniaxial tensile stress is a challenge due to plastic strain localization. In conventional tensile tests, fracture initiation occurs within a localized neck under evolving triaxial stress, while surface strains are measured using digital image correlation (DIC). To comprehensively characterize the uniaxial fracture strain of an advanced high-strength dual-phase steel, DP1180, five experiments were performed including a standard JIS tensile test, a miniaturized tensile test, a sub-sized ASTM tensile test, a central hole tension test, and a conical punch hole expansion test. DIC was utilized to measure surface strains, and a post-fracture thickness correction method was proposed to adjust for localization angle and thinning. A finite-element analysis using the anisotropic Yld2004 criterion was conducted for all tests. The results showed that close agreement in global stress response does not necessarily indicate accurate local strain predictions, as local strains in tests with localization in a single shear band were not well captured by the models. The hole tension test resulted in uniaxial tension at the hole edge, but localization and fracture occurred behind the edge under non-uniaxial stress. The conical punch hole expansion test induced proportional stress at the outer hole edge where fracture initiated, providing the largest strains. After post-fracture thickness correction, there was general convergence in major fracture strain for all tests. The hole expansion test provided the largest strains without inverse numerical modeling and demonstrated general convergence in major fracture strain after post-fracture correction.
[8] Haoran Ding,Jian Peng,Dongya Lu ,等.Comparison study of small punch test, hydraulic bulge test and uniaxial tensile test for typical pressure vessel CrMo steel[J].International Journal of Pressure Vessels and Piping,2025,217 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Small specimen testing methods offer valuable insights into the mechanical properties of materials when specimen size is limited. Various small specimen methods have been applied, but their differences and correlations are poorly understood. This study compares small punch test (SPT), hydraulic bulge test (HBT), and uniaxial tensile test (UTT) for the typical pressure vessel CrMo steel, focusing on strain distribution, stress state, and fracture mechanism. The SPT shows an “M” shape strain distribution, with the strain concentrating on the contacting area between ball and specimen, leading to the ductile fracture at the near biaxial tension stress state. The HBT presents the inverted “V” shape strain distribution, with fracture occurring in the central region of specimen at the biaxial tension stress state. Based on membrane theory, the theoretical derived correlation models of SPT and UTT, as well as HBT and UTT, were developed for the tensile strength, providing effective approaches to predict tensile mechanical properties by SPT and HBT. The novelty of this paper is revealing the differences and correlations among SPT, HBT and UTT, and demonstrating the efficiencies of SPT and HBT as alternative testing methods to UTT for mechanical properties in the conditions of very limited materials.
[9] M.A. Saqif,Sherif El-Tawil .Cyclic damage constitutive behavior of UHPC under uniaxial tension[J].Construction and Building Materials,2025,496 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The uniaxial behavior of UHPC under cyclic tension is experimentally investigated for two different fiber volume fractions (<em>V</em><sub><em>f</em></sub> <em>= 1.5 % and 2.0 %</em>) with a full incursion in compression. The tension coupons are loaded and then fully unloaded (<em>hence incurring compression</em>) under two types of cyclic loading regimes (<em>one and two cycles per displacement increment</em>). Displacement increments include cycles prior to and post attaining the localization strain. The experimental results show that strength and stiffness degradation under cyclic loading is not substantial until the strains exceed the localization strain and that the compression incursions have no effect on the tensile response for the applied loading regime. It is also observed that increasing the steel fiber volume fraction mildly inhibits the stiffness degradation process. An analytical elastoplastic stress-strain relationship considering damage with only two calibration parameters is introduced and calibrated to express the cyclic stress-strain relationship of UHPC under tension. The proposed relationship is reasonably robust in capturing the hysteretic tensile response of UHPC and is therefore suitable for finite element simulation of UHPC structures under cyclic loading.
[10] Huang, Peizhi,Qing, Longbang .Fracture characteristics of concrete under biaxial tension-tension loading revealed by a gap tensile test: a numerical study[J].International Journal of Fracture,2025,249 (3):1-23,SPRINGER
摘要：In practical projects, concrete members are often subjected to multiple axial stress states, and the actual fracture process is more complex. This study utilizes a novel gap tensile test method and two-dimensional random circular aggregate mesoscopic numerical simulation to investigate notched concrete fracture characteristics. On the basis of Ba & zcaron;ant's Type II size effect law (SEL) and linear elastic fracture mechanics (LEFM), fracture parameters such as fracture energy, notch tensile strength, and fracture toughness of concrete under biaxial tensile stress were obtained. The results indicate, compared with uniaxial loading, that crack-parallel tensile stress significantly affects the key fracture parameters of concrete. As the crack-parallel tensile stress increases, the peak fracture load of all the concrete samples tend to monotonically decrease. Compared with that when the normalized crack-parallel tensile stress eta = 0, the peak load decreases by approximately 5, 20, and 40% when eta is 0.19, 0.38, and 0.57, respectively, for different specimen dimensions. When the normalized crack-parallel stress increases to 0.57, the fracture energy, fracture toughness, and notch tensile strength decrease by approximately 30-80%. The crack-parallel tensile stress induces predamage in the weak interfacial transition zone (ITZ) of the concrete, leading to a reduction in the load-bearing capacity. Likewise, it can be expected that this degradation effect will be even more severe in low-strength concrete.
[11] Hongchen Yu,Depo Yang,Yunfeng Xiao ,等.Experimental study on the constitutive model and energy evolution law of PE-ECC under uniaxial tension[J].Construction and Building Materials,2025,487 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：With the increased application of highly ductile fiber-reinforced cementitious composites (ECC), the study of the constitutive relationship and energy evolution of high-strength and high-ductility ECC prepared by PE fibers has become an essential focus in engineering applications. In this paper, 13 groups of PE-ECC specimens were prepared and subjected to uniaxial tensile tests by adjusting the water-binder ratio, sand-binder ratio, and fiber aspect ratio. The results show that Increasing the water–binder ratio reduces viscosity and improves slump, while a higher sand–binder ratio lowers flowability by increasing internal friction and reducing slurry content, and at low water–binder ratios, ECC with long PE fibers shows higher slump than that with short fibers, whereas the opposite occurs at high water–binder ratios. Alternatively, appropriately reducing the water-binder ratio or increasing the sand-binder ratio can enhance the tensile strength and ductility of the material, and a higher fiber aspect ratio can increase the tensile ductility by 8–17 %. Through comparative analysis, three optimal mixing ratios were identified, with peak stresses exceeding 8.5 MPa and peak strains surpassing 5 %. Additionally, a trilinear uniaxial tensile constitutive model was adopted to fit the stress-strain curve based on the test results. The corresponding constitutive parameters were then determined, and the accuracy of the model was verified through further testing. Finally, energy analysis reveals that with the increase of tensile strain, PE-ECC displays synchronized increases in both absorbed and dissipated energy, while elastic strain energy remained relatively consistent, ranging from 2.25 to 2.5 kJ/m³ , which demonstrated high energy dissipation and low energy storage characteristics. The abrupt change in the tensile elastic energy dissipation ratio Rt can serve as a predictive criterion for PE-ECC failure.
[12] Zhang, Hongji,Lu, Hang,Wang, Ziheng ,等.Study on Damage Constitutive Model of Reactive Powder Concrete in Uniaxial Tension[J].Buildings,2024,14 (12),MDPI
摘要：In this paper, the damage constitutive model of reactive powder concrete (RPC) in uniaxial tension is investigated. The relationship between the uniaxial tensile strength of RPC and the steel fiber admixture was analyzed by preparing RPC specimens with different steel fiber volume admixtures for uniaxial tensile tests, and the stress-strain curves were recorded. The test results show that the uniaxial tensile strength of RPC is significantly enhanced with an increase in steel fiber doping, especially after the doping amount is greater than 2%, showing a linear increase. Based on the classical damage mechanics and Weibull distribution, the damage evolution equation and the constitutive model of RPC uniaxial tension were established. The validation shows that the model can effectively describe the damage process of RPC in uniaxial tension, which provides a theoretical basis for the application of RPC in engineering practice.
[13] ZHANG Weilong,YANG Dong,TAO Zhigang ,等.Comparison of strain and temperature fields between Micro-NPR and PR anchor rods under uniaxial tension[J].Journal of Mountain Science,2026,23 (1):370-379,Science Press
摘要：The deformation characteristics and thermal response of anchor rods are crucial for ensuring the stability and safety of surrounding rock support ***,existing research has predominantly concentrated on the mechanical performance of anchor rods,with limited attention to the coupled evolution of strain and temperature fields during tensile *** knowledge gap hinders a comprehensive understanding of the synergistic mechanical-thermal response mechanisms in anchor rods under loading *** address this limitation,the present study systematically investigated the evolution of strain and temperature fields,along with their correlation,during the test of micro-negative Poisson's ratio(NPR)and ordinary Poisson's ratio(PR)anchor *** image correlation(DIC)and infrared thermography(IRT)techniques were employed for this *** uniaxial tensile tests were conducted at two different rates,and the ordinary PR anchor rod(Q235 anchor rod)was established as a control group for comparative *** findings reveal that the micro-NPR anchor rod exhibit strain localization at multiple locations during the tensile process,whereas Q235 anchors show local strain concentration in only one *** standard deviation evolution curves for both the strain and temperature field exhibit two distinct phases in the two anchor *** evolution patterns between these two types of curves are basically *** two standard deviation curves for the micro-NPR anchor rod display a wavy increase in the second phase,while for the Q235 anchor rod,they increase steadily until the specimen is *** correlation analysis reveals that the standard deviations of strain and temperature differences for both types of anchor rods are significantly *** findings demonstrate the synergistic evolution mechanism of deformation and thermal response,providing a potential foundation for utilizing thermal monitoring to assess the stability o
[14] Acharjee, Prashanta Kumar,Isied, Mayzan,Souliman, Mena I. ,等.Artificial Neural Network Model for Predicting Fatigue Endurance Limit of Hot Mix Asphalt Using Uniaxial Tension-Compression Tests[J].International Journal of Pavement Research and Technology,2026,SPRINGERNATURE
摘要：Fatigue is one of the major distresses occurring in asphalt concrete pavement. Repeated traffic loading causes escalated structural damage which results in the formation of cracks. There is a strain level below which the Hot Mix Asphalt goes under fatigue failure, and it is called endurance limit. In this study, a predictive model is developed to predict endurance limit strain values by using artificial neural network. Uniaxial tension-compression fatigue test results conducted under NCHRP Project 9-44 A were utilized in the model development process. An equation is also extracted from the model along which gives the exact values as the model. The coefficient of determination (R2) for the ANN predicted strain value and laboratory-measured strain value is 0.96. The model performed better than the previous in predicting fatigue endurance limit strain value. A separate Monte Carlo model is developed to highlight the impact of the variability of the individual parameters on the tensile strain predictions. The Monte Carlo Analysis based on 1,000 simulations revealed that predictive tensile strain models can lead to underestimation of output as they do not account for the variability of input parameters.
[15] Runzhi Lu,Yeqing Gu,Mao Qin ,等.Terrestrial laser scanning based full-scale wind load test and numerical analysis of a tensile membrane structure[J].Thin-Walled Structures,2025,212 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The structural response of tensile membrane structures under wind load is critical to their overall safety and stability. Characterizing the shape and detecting the stress state of the tensile membrane are essential aspects of this analysis. Full-scale testing is undoubtedly the most effective and direct method to gain an in-depth understanding of the deformation mechanisms of these structures under wind loads. This study uses tFIGerrestrial laser scanning technology to examine the structural behaviour of a saddle-shaped tensile membrane structure subjected to wind load. Initially, uniaxial and biaxial tensile experiments are conducted on the material. The uniaxial experiments analyse the impact of different prestress levels on material nonlinearity, and the biaxial experiments assess the residual strain after multiple tension cycles, providing insights into the true mechanical response of the structure under wind pressure. Subsequently, full-scale form finding test and wind load tests based on the equivalent load method are performed. Terrestrial laser scanning technology captures the dynamic geometrical changes of the tensile membrane, offering valuable data on its deformation behaviours under various wind load cases. Additionally, a finite element model of the structure under wind load is developed based on the material properties obtained from the experiments. A comparative analysis between test results and finite element simulations is conducted and discussed. In conclusion, this research enhances the understanding of tensile membrane structures and provides a foundation for advanced structural analysis and design in architectural applications.
[16] Cleary, Patrick,Northcote, Rhys,Narayanan, Advaith ,等.Experimental Fracture Characterization from Uniaxial to Plane Strain Tension Using the Tight Radius V-Bend Test with Application to Machined and Sheared Edge Conditions[J].Solids,2026,7 (1),MDPI
摘要：The VDA 238-100 tight radius bend test has gained widespread acceptance for plane strain fracture characterization of sheet metals in proportional loading without necking. The VDA test features a 60 & times;60 mm2 square blank with a 0.2 mm or 0.4 mm radius punch to provide plane strain bending where the fracture limit of the material is lowest. However, the through-thickness gradients that suppress necking and promote fracture on the convex surface in tension can be exploited to efficiently characterize the fracture strain from uniaxial to plane strain tension by varying the sample width. In this study, V-bend tests were conducted for various sample widths for four advanced high-strength steels: 980GEN3, DP1180, MP800-V1, and MP800-V2 with the local fracture strains measured using digital image correlation. Reducing the width-to-thickness ratio below five altered the stress state at the failure location, with an aspect ratio of one providing edge fractures under uniaxial tension. This aspect ratio was then applied to 980GEN3 and MP800 steel samples with punched edges as it provides an efficient method for sheared edge fracture characterization that is not susceptible to necking as with common sheared edge tensile tests. To mitigate strain averaging inherent in DIC near surfaces, a geometric-based arc length methodology was proposed. The sheared edge fracture limits from the V-bend tests were then compared with the results from conical hole expansion and in-plane bend tests. The sheared edge formability was observed to have a material-dependent sensitivity to the test method. MP800-V2, with centerline segregation, exhibited a pronounced sensitivity to the applied deformation mode with absolute differences in fracture strains of 0.13 while the MP800-V1 and 980GEN3 did not.
[17] Hosseini, Seyed Amin,Inca-Cabrera, Eliana,Jorddo, Sandra ,等.Mechanical Characterisation and Numerical Modelling of Structural Silicon Sikasil® SG-500;Uniaxial Tensile Test[M].EXPERIMENTAL VIBRATION ANALYSIS FOR CIVIL ENGINEERING STRUCTURES, EVACES 2025-VOL 3,2025,676 :672-680,SPRINGER INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING AG
摘要：Silicones are rubber-like materials and exhibit a behaviour known as hyperelastic, which entails a large-strain elastic response under quasi-static loading and is near incompressible. Due to their near incompressible nature, the states of strain are typically complex. Their behaviour is a combination of tension, compression, shear and a very small amount of volume change. This study aims to characterise the mechanical behaviour of the Structural Silicon Sikasil (R) SG-500, with a focus on obtaining an accurate rheologic curve, to use in numerical models of adhesively bonded pointed fixed glass panels. The path to reach this aim was twofold. First, the results of the experimental test on uniaxial tensile and planar tensile tests were used to get the coefficients for eight different forms of hyperelastic material models. After that, these material models were used to calibrate the numerical model of the uniaxial tensile test. The results revealed that most of the selected material forms for structural silicon provided a good fit with the experimental results of the uniaxial tensile test. However, the first order of the Polynomial form (N = 1) was not able to accurately capture the deformation of materials in regions of large strains.
[18] Jian Yang,Junwei Luo,Gang Xu ,等.Multi-scale study on steel fiber reinforcement mechanism and uniaxial tension constitutive relationship of UHPFRC containing stone powder[J].Construction and Building Materials,2024,418 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Ultra-high performance fiber reinforcement concrete containing stone powder (SP-UHPFRC) is a kind of ultra-high performance fiber reinforcement concrete (UHPFRC) prepared by using stone powder waste from stone processing instead of quartz powder. It can reduce the waste of land resources and environmental pollution caused by stone powder accumulation in corresponding areas. This research studies the steel fiber reinforcement mechanism and uniaxial tension constitutive relationship of UHPFRC containing stone powder (SP-UHPFRC) from several scales. In the micro-scale, comparing the results of SEM and XRD of SP-UHPFRC and UHPFRC. it can be found that the influence of adding stone powder in the micro-scale of SP-UHPFRC is mainly manifested in the change of microstructure. After adding stone powder, the hydration products adsorb on the stone powder to form particles, which leads to a decrease in the compactness of the matrix, and the spalling phenomenon of the matrix is more obvious when the steel fiber is pulled out. In the meso-scale, the pullout test of steel fibers with different aspect ratio from the SP-UHPFRC matrix was tested. The results shown that as the aspect ratio of steel fiber increases, both the maximum pullout stress and the tensile strength utilization ratio of steel fiber increase as well. In the macro-small-scale, 18 groups of SP-UHPFRC uniaxial tensile test specimens with 3 kinds of aspect ratios and 6 volume fractions of steel fiber were designed. The effects of steel fiber on the uniaxial tensile properties and constitutive relationship were investigated. The SP-UHPFRC uniaxial tensile constitutive relationship equation including the fiber reinforcement factor is proposed and verified. In the macro-large-scale, the applicability of the uniaxial tensile constitutive relationship in macro-large-scale analysis is discussed by comparing the cracking load of finite element simulation established by using the uniaxial tension constitutive relationship pro
[19] 李世奇,强洪夫,陈铁铸 ,等.单轴拉伸下NEPE固体推进剂细观结构演化行为研究[J].含能材料,2024,32 (2):175-182
摘要：为了分析硝酸酯增塑聚醚(Nitrate Ester Plasticized Polyether,NEPE)推进剂在单轴准静态拉伸载荷下细观结构演化行为,基于Micro⁃CT对拉伸过程中NEPE推进剂开展了原位观测试验,对NEPE推进剂中高氯酸铵(AP)颗粒和初始缺陷的尺寸、形状等细观结构特征进行了表征,获取了单轴拉伸过程中推进剂细观结构的失效过程,并采用孔隙率对NEPE推进剂细观损伤的变化规律进行了定量分析,基于NEPE推进剂细观尺度上结构的演变规律解释了宏观力学性能变化的原因。结果表明,NEPE推进剂初始缺陷尺寸小、体积占比低,平均值为0.12%。单轴准静态拉伸过程中,NEPE推进剂的细观失效过程主要包括孔洞形核、生长与汇聚3个阶段;AP颗粒的体积分数虽然低,但是由于容易脱湿通常成为细观损伤的起点;当AP发生一定程度脱湿后,奥克托今(HMX)也会出现明显的脱湿,在分析NEPE推进剂细观失效问题时应当考虑HMX脱湿行为的影响。大量细观缺陷的形核与生长是NEPE推进剂宏观力学性能进入非线性段的原因,而细观缺陷的不断汇聚使得宏观应力增加落后于应变增加的现象越来越明显。加载过程中孔隙率呈现出先缓慢增加再急剧增加最后增加趋于平缓的变化趋势,孔隙率的变化规律不仅能够定量地反映NEPE推进剂细观缺陷的演化阶段,与NEPE推进剂宏观力学性能的变化也具有一定的对应关系。
[20] Surong Luo,Wentao Zhou,Minming Yu ,等.Stress-strain relationship of fiber reinforced recycled aggregate concrete under uniaxial tension[J].Construction and Building Materials,2024,422 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To solve the problem of the lack of structural design basis of fiber reinforced recycled aggregate concrete (FRAC), and promote its realistic application, in this investigation, the replacement ratio of recycled coarse aggregate (RCA), fiber type, fiber content, and fiber blending forms are taken as experimental variables. With the size of Φ100 mm×300 mm, 21 groups of cylindrical specimens are designed to study the influence of the above variables on the complete stress-strain curve of fiber RAC when bearing uniaxial tension. The results show that the tensile characteristic values decrease as the replacement ratio of RCA increases. When single doping of fibers was considered, the tensile characteristic values increased as fiber content increased. When the steel (SF) was mixed with polyvinyl alcohol fiber (PVAF) and polypropylene fiber (PPF), the tensile characteristic values were improved. Proper blending of PVAF and PPF can improve the characteristic values of tensile ductility. Through the results of the uniaxial tensile experiment, constitutive equations of the uniaxial tensile stress-strain curve of FRAC under different test variables were established, which can provide fundamental material parameters to design FRAC structures. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[21] Deng, Lijiao,Xu, Shengcai,Wang, Tongkuai ,等.Research on Uniaxial Tension Test of Smart Screw[M].Advances in Transdisciplinary Engineering,2025,80 :2-9,IOS Press BV
摘要：This study aims to explore the application of smart bolts in uniaxial tensile tests by conducting uniaxial cyclic tensile tests on carbon fiber plates to analyze their eccentric effects. The experimental design includes four groups of a total of eight smart bolts, using a tension platform to apply tension to the carbon fiber plates and assess their performance under different loads. The results indicate that smart bolts can effectively monitor strain changes during the tensioning process, providing important data support for the application of carbon fiber composites. © 2025 The Authors.
[22] Wang, Changsheng,Ma, Tao .Experimental investigation on mechanical behaviors of PET fabric coated/uncoated PVC for automobile airbags use subjected to uniaxial, biaxial tension and in-plane large shear deformation[J].Journal of Engineered Fibers and Fabrics,2024,19 ,SAGE PUBLICATIONS LTD
摘要：PET (Polyethylene Terephthalate) fabric, as one of the airbag materials, has good viscoelasticity and permeability. The surface treatment of airbag fabrics often comes in two types (coated and uncoated) depending on their type and cost. In this study, two fabrics of the automobile airbag material PET was used in the presence and absence of surface coating with PVC (polyvinyl chloride). Three different types of experimental tests including off-axial uniaxial tension, biaxial cyclic loading and picture-frame shear cyclic loading were used depending on the fabric's load state during the airbag inflatable deployment and folding process. The two materials' uniaxial tensile modulus and the biaxial tensile modulus were successfully obtained. According to the experimental results of the two materials, the coated material was found to have superior elastic properties than the uncoated material. However, the stress-strain change path was consistent, allowing for a more accurate definition of the material properties of automobile airbag fabric and stronger technical support for the development of automobile airbag safety.
[23] 陈俊甫,章陈康平,蔡晋辉 ,等.基于3D-DIC技术的金属棒材单轴拉伸大应变硬化曲线测量研究[J].中国测试,2025,51 (1):39-46
摘要：为精确测量金属棒材单轴拉伸颈缩后大应变范围硬化曲线,采用三维数字图像相关技术(3D-DIC)测量试样颈缩区域几何构型,基于Bridgman模型对颈缩后流动应力进行修正,评估Ludwik、Swift、Hockett-Sherby(H-S)和Voce模型对硬化曲线的拟合效果,开展单轴拉伸有限元模拟以验证大应变硬化曲线的可靠性。结果表明:以6061铝合金棒材为例,3D-DIC技术可以精确地获取试样颈缩最小横截面半径a和外轮廓曲率半径R的演化规律,结合Bidgman模型可以有效地获取颈缩后大应变硬化曲线,其应变范围(0~0.41)是常规单轴实验所获取硬化曲线应变范围(0~0.058)的7倍,Hockett-Sherby硬化模型具有最佳的硬化曲线拟合优度,基于该模型的单轴拉伸模拟输出载荷-位移曲线和应变云图与实验测量结果基本一致,证实3D-DIC技术结合Bridgman模型能够精确地测量金属棒材单轴拉伸颈缩后大应变范围的硬化曲线。
[24] Zeng, Jun-Jie,Zeng, Wei-Bin,Zhuge, Yan ,等.Behavior and modeling of FRP grid-reinforced ultra-high-performance concrete under uniaxial tension[J].Structural Concrete,2024,25 (2):1185-1207,ERNST & SOHN
摘要：Fiber reinforced polymer (FRP) reinforced ultra-high-performance concrete (UHPC) structural elements have become increasing popular in research and industry communities. In this paper, uniaxial tension tests were conducted to study the effects of fiber type, fiber length, and fiber content on tensile behavior of FRP grid reinforced UHPC plates (FGRUPs). Additionally, the microstructure analysis of specimens was conducted using scanning electron microscopy. Test results reveal that carbon FRP (CFRP) grid can substantially enhance the tensile performance of UHPC under tension: (1) the FGRUPs exhibit a post-crack strain-hardening behavior while the UHPC plates exhibit a post-crack strain-softening behavior;(2) the FRP grid enhances the cracking stress of UHPC specimens (except for plates with 1% basalt fibers) and the stiffness of the second segment of the stress-strain curve, and substantially enhances the ultimate tensile stress UHPC specimens. Also, the cost-effectiveness analysis indicates that plates containing 1% of 12 mm length PE fibers have a highest cost efficiency index. Finally, a modified tensile stress-strain model for FGRUPs is proposed and verified.
[25] Binkai Yang,Boxin Wei,Wujing Fu ,等.Effect of interfacial reaction layers on crack propagation behavior of Ti/Al layered metal composites in uniaxial tensile test from the perspective of local strain[J].Materials Science and Engineering: A,2025,942 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study investigates the effect of the interfacial reaction layer on the crack propagation behavior of Ti/Al layered metal composites (LMCs) under uniaxial tensile testing. Ti/Al and Ti/TiAl<sub>3</sub>/Al LMCs were fabricated using vacuum hot-pressing. In-situ tensile tests, coupled with digital image correlation methods, were conducted to analyze crack propagation behavior from the perspective of local strain. These results show that the fracture elongation of LMCs decreases significantly with the presence of an interfacial reaction layer. Crack propagation shifts from following the layer interface to propagating perpendicularly to it. At low-tensile strain levels, microcracking occurs within the interfacial reaction layer. However, the adjacent ductile layers effectively suppress the instability of these microcracks. During tension deformation, the stress fields at the crack-tip in the neighboring interfacial reaction layers bridge together, forming stress-concentrated bands, that cause significant strain localization. More importantly, the accelerated accumulation of dislocation in the strain-localized regions depletes the work-hardening capacity, thereby promoting crack propagation along the localized path. Therefore, inhibiting the formation of the interfacial reaction layer in LMCs can enhance strain delocalization and improve fracture elongation.
[26] Trofimov, A.V.,Fedoseev, A.V.,Kisel, A.A. ,等.Methods of uniaxial tension testing of rock samples with splitting: Comparison[J].Gornyi Zhurnal,2024,2024 (3):65-70,Ore and Metals Publishing house
摘要：For the mines at the Oktyabrsky and Talnakh deposits, from the implemented geomechanical research, it is found that the stability of ore and rocks ranges widely, from extreme instability to stability. The lithological diversity also lays emphasis on the accuracy of strength characteristics. A generally accepted value to characterize the strength of rocks is the uniaxial compression strength. In the meanwhile, the tension strength is also a very important determinant of the physical and mechanical properties of rocks since the process of rock failure is, among other things, governed by the action of the tensile load, especially in mechanical and blast-induced loading. In view of the difficult nature of direct tension testing of rock samples, numerous tension tests of rocks were performed using different methods. The world practices use widely indirect tension testing under complex stress states when failure mode of test samples generally depends on the maximal tension component of the stress tensor. The comparative tests of uniaxial compression strength are carried out for lithologically various rocks from the Oktyabrsky and Talnakh deposits. The experimental estimation of the effect of the contact conditions at the loading point of the test samples in the indirect tension testing of rocks is carried out. The destructive load ratios are found for different contact conditions on identical test samples. The uniaxial tension strength coefficients are determined for application conditions of different loading surfaces. © 2024, Ore and Metals Publishing house. All rights reserved.
[27] Kim, Jae-Yeol,Shim, Chun-Bo .Uniaxial Tensile Mechanical Properties of ETFE Film after Synchronous Biaxial Pre-Tension[J].Journal of Korean Association for Spatial Structures,2025,25 (2):79-91,Korean Association for Spatial Structures
摘要：In this paper, the uniaxial tensile mechanical characteristics after synchronous biaxial pre-tension analysis are investigated on a ETFE film crown model. After the biaxial pre-stretching is completed, the rectangular specimens are cut along the MD and TD directions of the biaxially pre-stretched ETFE film to conduct the uniaxial stretching test. The uniaxial tensile mechanical properties of the ETFE film after biaxial pre-stretching are investigated, the specific uniaxial tensile mechanical property parameters of the biaxially pre-stretched film are determined, and the influence of biaxial pre-stretching on the uniaxial tensile mechanical properties of the ETFE film is analyzed.
[28] Yakun Zhang,Haitang Zhu .Uniaxial tension properties and stress-strain relation of steel fiber reinforced concrete subjected to salt and freeze-thaw cycles[J].Construction and Building Materials,2025,489 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper presents an experimental study on the mass loss, relative dynamic modulus of elasticity, uniaxial tensile strength, and stress-strain curves for steel fiber reinforced concrete subjected to different freeze-thaw cycles in a 5 % NaCl solution. One hundred and eighty dogbone-shaped specimens with dimensions of 100 mm × 100 mm × 400 mm and one hundred and thirty-five cubic specimens with dimensions of 100 mm × 100 mm × 100 mm were cast and tested. Test results show that as the number of chloride salt freeze-thaw (F-T) cycles increases, the mass loss of steel fiber reinforced concrete decreases first and then increases; the relative dynamic modulus of elasticity of specimens continuously decreases, and the rate of decrease of steel fiber reinforced concrete specimens is lower than that of ordinary concrete under the same conditions; the axial tensile peak strength of steel fiber reinforced concrete specimens decreases continuously, while the peak strain increases continuously, and both can be accurately expressed by the quadratic function of the freeze-thaw cycles (N). 1.0 % has been determined as the optimal volume fraction for steel fiber reinforced concrete subjected to the chloride freeze-thaw environment. The stress-strain curve of steel fiber reinforced concrete specimen first ascends rapidly and then descends suddenly after exceeding the peak strength, and then turns into a slow and stable deformation development process. Theoretic stress-strain curve of steel fiber reinforced concrete after chloride salt freeze-thaw cycles is proposed and is in good agreement with the experimental results.
[29] Xue Ouyang,Yong Huang .The optimal design of double-edge wedge-splitting tensile test for ultra high performance concrete[J].Construction and Building Materials,2024,438 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The double-edge wedge-splitting (DEWS) test is a new indirectly tensile test, those of stress distribution similar with the uniaxial tension state. However, there are no standard rules regarding the splitting specimen and groove dimensions suitable for the UHPC tensile properties. In this paper, DEWS test, conventional splitting test, and direct tensile test were performed to measure the tensile strength and tensile stress vs. crack opening response of UHPC. The digital image correlation (DIC) technique was utilized to detect the crack propagation paths and fracture modes. Two specimen shapes, three groove angles and three fiber types are utilized to this investigation. The experimental results of 18 DEWSs under tensile loading, including peak strength, tensile stress-COD curves, fracture modes and properties, and the crack paths, are presented. The results show that the UHPC tensile performance used with cubic specimen is less sensitive to groove angle than in the cylinder. An important finding is that DEWS test used with 45° grooved cube specimen presents the lowest variation in peak strength and stress-COD curve for UHPC tensile behaviors. After comparison, the tensile strengths using DEWS test and direct tension test are essential equal in first-cracking and peak strength. The crack paths and fracture mode are basically the same inside the DEWS and direct tension specimens. Accordingly, the DEWS test used with 45° grooved cubic specimen is suggested for measuring the UHPC tensile property. © 2024
[30] 刘磊,郑志辉,史阳光 .蒸压加气混凝土砌块单轴拉伸力学性能研究[J].水电能源科学,2023,41 (2):173-176,120
摘要：为了研究蒸压加气混凝土砌块(AACB)在静力状态下单轴拉伸的力学行为,通过对不同密度的AACB进行单轴拉伸试验,分析了AACB抗拉破坏特征、破坏机理,并探讨了其抗拉强度、弹性模量在不同密度下的变化规律及单轴拉伸强度与孔隙率、抗压和劈裂拉伸强度关系的相关公式。试验结果表明,随着AACB的密度增大,其拉伸屈服强度、弹性模量逐渐提高并呈幂函数增加,然而拉伸屈服应变却逐渐减小;AACB材料在单轴拉力作用下的宏观破坏主要由材料受拉损伤机制控制,并表现出明显的脆性破坏特征。基于多孔材料理想预测模型及试验结果回归分析,拟合得到试验条件下AACB单轴拉伸强度与孔隙率半经验公式及修正系数,并提出AACB抗拉强度与其抗压强度、劈裂拉伸强度的换算关系。
[31] Zhao, Ji-Zhi,Xin, Gong-Feng,Tao, Mu-Xuan ,等.MECHANICAL PROPERTIES AND CONSTITUTIVE MODEL OF ULTRA-HIGH PERFORMANCE CONCRETE MATERIAL UNDER UNIAXIAL TENSION AND COMPRESSION CYCLES[J].工程力学,2024,41 (4):81-93,Tsinghua University
摘要：Ultra-high performance concrete (UHPC) is a new material with high tensile, compressive strength and strain hardening after cracking, which has a wide application prospect in the field of assembled structures. To clarify the mechanical properties of UHPC under uniaxial cyclic loads, prism and dog-bone specimens with different steel fiber content are designed. Through uniaxial compressive and tensile tests with different loading regimes, the effects of steel fiber content, of maintenance mode and, of loading regime on uniaxial mechanical properties of UHPC are analyzed. The test results show that: the peak compressive strain of UHPC with the steel fiber content of 2% is significantly larger than that of UHPC with the steel fiber content of 1% and 3%. The elastic modulus of each UHPC specimen is significantly higher than that of traditional concrete. Furthermore, UHPC shows strain hardening phenomenon and ductility in tensile experiment. The content of steel fiber and steam curing treatment can significantly improve the tensile strength of UHPC specimens. Finally, upon the test data, the skeleton curves and hysteresis criteria of UHPC under compression and tension are proposed, and the formulae for the process of unloading (reloading) are fitted, which can be used for the basic constitutive model of UHPC in the numerical calculation. © 2024 Tsinghua University. All rights reserved.
[32] Shin, H. S.,Diaz, M. A.,Osamura, K. ,等.International round-robin test for electromechanical properties of HTS wires under uniaxial tension at liquid nitrogen temperature[J].Superconductor Science and Technology,2025,38 (6):065001-065001,IOP Publishing Ltd
摘要：As superconducting wires have become more prevalent, it has become increasingly important to establish reliable and standardized methods for evaluating their electromechanical properties (EMPs) at cryogenic temperatures. An international round-robin test (RRT) was conducted to assess the EMPs of four commercially available high-temperature superconducting (HTS) tapes as an activity to establish a standard for the EMP test method. Six laboratories participated in the RRT, adhering to the guidelines. During tensile testing of the HTS wires at 77 K, critical current (Ic) measurements were performed using a stress-based test method. This method streamlined the testing procedure by changing stress intervals from broad to narrow as the applied stress approached the Ic degradation point while eliminating the need for dedicated extensometers. The EMPs of the reversible stress limit (Rrev) and retention stress limit (Rret) for Ic degradation were defined based on specific criteria for 99% Ic0 recovery and 95% Ic0 retention. Once the RRT participants reported their test results, statistical analysis tools such as ANOVA were employed to identify sources of variation and assess their magnitude in the results. The primary source of the relative standard uncertainty was the effect of inter-laboratory scattering. The RRT results are utilized to develop an international standard for evaluating EMPs of HTS wires through Ic measurements under uniaxial tension at liquid nitrogen temperature. These RRT analysis results offer valuable insights into potential sources and magnitudes of measurement uncertainties, ultimately contributing to standardized test procedures for accurate and reliable EMP characterization of HTS wires.
[33] Piotrowski, Andrzej,Gajewski, Marcin,Jemiolo, Stanislaw ,等.The influence of the accuracy of reproducing the uniaxial tensile test of mild steel in the H-M plasticity model on the behaviour of a perforated thin walled shell subjected to compression[J].Archives of Civil Engineering,2025,71 (2):209-224,POLISH ACAD SCIENCES
摘要：The article describes the impact of modeling the plasticity constitutive relationship on the buckling of a short section of a perforated thin-walled steel bar with an open cross-section (modeled as a perforated shell) subjected to compression, being one of the elements of a high-storage system. Numerical calculations were performed in the ABAQUS/Standard program with application of the elasto-plasticity theory of large deformations with additive decomposition of the logarithmic strain tensor and taking into account the nonlinear isotropic or kinematic strain hardening models. The isotropic nature of the material was considered and the plastic flow law associated with the Huber-Mises plasticity condition was assumed. In the elasticity range, linear characteristics of the material was assumed, while in the plasticity range, the shape of the uniaxial strain hardening curve was described as piecewise linear approximation of plastic strain-stress graphs obtained from uniaxial tensile tests. The 24 sets of material data obtained on the basis of experimental tests were analyzed and the influence of differences in the values of material parameters were described (in tests carried out on samples cut from the modeled bars, large differences were found in the values of material parameters and the shape of uniaxial tension graphs). Also the accuracy of strain hardening modeling (the number of sections assumed in the model piecewise linear) on the calculated bearing capacity force value was considered and evaluated.
[34] Aji, Sangeetham,Murthy, P.S.K.,Gupta, Sachin .Effect of Relative Humidity on Mechanical Properties and Failure Behaviour of Vesicular and Amygdular Basalts Under Uniaxial Compression and Indirect Tension[M].Lecture Notes in Civil Engineering,2025,578 :285-294,Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH
摘要：The impact of humidity levels on the absorption of moisture and mechanical properties of rock is crucial in safeguarding the rock against potential catastrophic failure in different humid environments. In the present research, the effect of relative humidity (RH) on Vesicular Basalts and Amygdular Basalts (VAB) collected from central and west-central India were investigated in laboratory on their uniaxial compressive strength, indirect tensile strength and the failure behavior. The samples of Vesicular Basalts and Amygdular Basalts (VAB) were subjected to various ageing conditions namely—saturated state and at relative humidity of 65, 75, 85 and 95% using environmental test chamber, before undergoing laboratory investigations. The aged specimen results were then compared with the results of unsaturated specimens. The mineralogical composition is also quantified by X-ray diffraction analysis. The vesicular basalts majorly consists of Augite, Albite, and Labradorite with the traces of clay minerals. It was observed that moisture absorption (%) was increased with the increase of ageing of the specimens, and that resulted in the reduction of strengths both under uniaxial and indirect tensile tests. Most of the specimens under indirect tensile test failed along the chain of vesicles, whereas the failure of specimens under uniaxial compression varied from axial splitting to shear mode with the increase of RH. In comparison with UCS, it is inferred that the presence of macro pores in small disc specimens has significantly contributed the failure along the chain of vesicles. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2025.
[35] Dodla, Srihari,Anirudh, V. .Atomistic Simulations of Cu-Ag Bicrystal for a Uniaxial Tensile Test[J].Physics of Metals and Metallography,2024,125 (13):1768-1775,MAIK NAUKA/INTERPERIODICA/SPRINGER
摘要：The Cu-Ag bicrystal has great applications in manufacturing electrical and electronic components. In this study, we use LAMMPS to simulate the uniaxial tensile test of the Cu-Ag bicrystal and investigate the effects of the deformation mechanism under different strain rates and temperatures. The interatomic potential for the system was described using the modified embedded atom method (MEAM). The simulation was conducted while periodic boundary conditions were kept in all three directions to create the uniaxial tension. The stress-strain curve was plotted for the Cu-Ag bicrystal for different temperatures and strain rates. It was found that temperature and strain rate greatly influence the mechanical behavior of the nanocomposite. With an increase in strain rate, the yield stress of the system increases, and with an increase in temperature, the yield stress of the system decreases. The study provides insights into the mechanical behavior of Cu-Ag bicrystal and could aid in developing new materials with improved mechanical properties.
[36] Gali, Sahith,Sritharan, Sri .Evaluation of AASHTO T 397: Standard Method of Test for Uniaxial Tensile Response of Ultra-High-Performance Concrete[J].ACI MATERIALS JOURNAL,2024,121 (1):105-118,AMER CONCRETE INST
摘要：Ultra-high-performance concrete (UHPC) is a cementitious concrete material known for its sustained post-cracking tensile performance. Various specimen geometries and different test approaches have been used to establish the tensile characteristics of UHPC. Intending to standardize a direct tension test method, this paper independently evaluates a procedure developed by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), which has been adopted into AASHTO T 397. To verify the reliability and repeatability of the test method, 216 tensile specimens were cast from three different UHPC types with fiber-volume fractions of 1, 2, and 3% and tested at six laboratories. The measured responses were characterized for different phases of the tensile behavior and analyzed to understand the scatter in the test data. It was found that testing can be executed with a 60 to 70% success rate with carefully prepared samples and some modifications to the proposed test method. The test results show an increase in both the tensile strength and multicracking phase with an increase in fiber-volume fraction, but the crack straining phase depends primarily on the type of UHPC. Using the test data, average and characteristic tensile responses were established, which are intended, respectively, for analysis and design purposes.
[37] Okoth, Ronald,Mungesa, Venus,Teddy, Bill ,等.A Novel Direct Tensile Test Method for Mortar and Its Experimental Validation[J].TechRxiv,2026,TechRxiv
摘要：Tensile strength is a crucial property of mortar that needs to be addressed in order to withstand temperature stresses, flexure, shear, and shrinkage. Indirect tensile strength measurements are provided by currently available techniques such as split test but they does not provide high accuracy. More precise clamping and alignment are necessary for direct mortar tensile tests due to their complex setup. In order to ensure accuracy and simplicity, this study presents an improved mortar direct tensile strength test. Indirect tensile tests, as recommended by ASTM, are used to compare the results. Epoxy adhesive and prefabricated steel rigs were used to improve specimen alignment and clamping in the uniaxial direct tensile test. Before the tests were conducted, the specimens were cured in water for 28 days at a temperature of 24°C and a humidity level of over 95%. Under uniaxial tension, all examined specimens exhibited nonlinear elastic behavior, as there were no distinct transition from elastic to plastic deformation before failure, a phenomenon also observed in cement paste and mortar with a water-cement ratio of 0.5 by S. Carmona et al in their study . The developed direct tensile test method was effective in guaranteeing that each mortar specimen fractured in the middle as expected when direct tensile test is carried out on a specimen. These findings demonstrated that the strength of a mortar could be accurately determined using the direct test suggested in our study. The study is meant to improve the reliability of the Tensile tests done for mortar mixtures used in construction industries and to acertain the accuaracy of the results obtained from these tests. © 2026, CC BY.
[38] Delavari, Koorosh,Park, Taejoon,Lee, Myoung-gyu ,等.Finite Element Analysis of Mathematically Generated Model of Rib 1 x 1 Weft-Knitted Fabric Under Uniaxial Tension[J].Polymer Composites,2026,47 (9):8351-8369,WILEY
摘要：Different fiber-reinforcement structures in composites cause varied mechanical responses by affecting how stress is distributed throughout the sample under various loading conditions. Dry weft-knitted fabric, characterized by its high stretch rate, exhibits different behaviors when used as a standalone fabric compared to when it is used as reinforcement in composites. The high-rate elongation property of weft-knitted fabric arises from the yarns' interaction and the loops' geometry within the fabric, not from the material used. This study examines the tensile behavior of dry weft-knitted fabrics, intended to serve as reinforcement structures in composite materials. To analyze the impact of this structure, a mathematical model representing the 3D geometry of a Rib 1 x 1 weft-knitted fabric was developed. The fabric geometry was modeled using Python scripting of the mathematical equations within the ABAQUS FE software for analyzing the modeled geometries. An experimental tensile test was conducted on a commercial Rib 1 x 1 weft-knitted fabric in both the longitudinal and transverse directions. The fabric exhibited average elongations at break of 262% and 71%, and average maximum tensile forces of 132.8 and 395.6 N in the transverse and longitudinal directions, respectively. Remarkably, the mechanical response and deformation patterns of the numerical and experimental samples closely matched in these tests. Using mathematical models to recreate the complex geometries of these reinforcements in the dry fabric facilitated the accurate prediction of their mechanical responses using numerical analysis. These models are ideally suited for efficiently generating data to train machine learning and artificial intelligence models in the future.
[39] A.P. Pagnoncelli,D.S. Paolino,L. Peroni ,等.Innovative tensile test for brittle materials: Validation on graphite R4550[J].International Journal of Mechanical Sciences,2024,261 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper proposes an innovative ultrasonic tensile test methodology for the assessment of quasi-static uniaxial mechanical properties and tensile strength of brittle materials. An ultrasonic testing machine, commonly employed for very high cycle fatigue tests, had its control and data acquisition systems adapted to induce specimen failure in about 100 cycles, avoiding cyclic load damage. The mechanical properties are thereafter estimated with a finite element model which simulates the experimental test. The proposed method has been validated by assessing the tensile strength of graphite R4550, characterized by brittle behaviour. The mechanical properties for graphite R4550 estimated with this experimental-numerical approach were found to be close to literature values obtained in different quasi-static testing configurations, confirming the effectiveness of the proposed method and the feasibility of employing the ultrasonic fatigue testing machine for studying the behaviour of brittle materials. Furthermore, the proposed methodology eliminated issues caused by mechanical fixtures and tensile testing machine alignment, while also allowing a considerable increase of the material loaded volume when compared to that of traditional test methods. The experimental and numerical approaches are successfully validated on graphite R4550, also highlighting its capability of characterizing the material nonlinear behaviour, including viscoelasticity and asymmetrical response in tension and compression. © 2023
[40] Faustmann, Soeren,Wolf, Andreas,Fischer, Oliver .Development of an enhanced damage law for typical steel fiber reinforced concrete based on uniaxial compression and tension tests[J].Materials and Structures,2024,57 (7):1-15,SPRINGER
摘要：Understanding the stiffness of a concrete structure is crucial to analyze it, particularly for statically indeterminate structures. Stiffness degradation - commonly referred to as damage - occurs with the onset of cracking or large compressive strains. For most conventional and specialized types of concrete, damage studies and models for predicting damage development are available. However, more information is needed about the damage behavior for the most common steel fiber reinforced concrete in Europe with strength class C30/37 and modern end-anchored high-strength fibers in dosages of 20-40 kg/m3. Therefore, in this study, these common steel fiber concretes were subjected to multiple load cycles in (1) uniaxial compression tests on cylinders and (2) direct tensile tests on bone specimens to investigate their damage behavior. The resulting damage was then compared to known damage laws, but none of the models predicted accurate damage results. Finally, an existing damage law for plain concrete was modified as a function of the residual flexural tensile strength-the relevant parameter for describing the performance of the steel fiber reinforced concrete. Hereby, we were able to decisively improve the agreement between experimental results and the theoretical prognosis by utilizing our modified damage law.
[41] 徐菲,陆一安,周绪红 ,等.高强度环槽铆钉ML40Cr材料单轴拉伸及低周疲劳性能研究[J].建筑结构学报,2024,45 (10):217-228
摘要：为研究环槽铆钉ML40Cr材料的轴拉和低周疲劳力学性能,开展了单调拉伸和等幅低周疲劳试验,研究该材料在单调和循环荷载作用下的塑性性能及其力学性能退化规律,通过扫描电子显微镜观察断口微观形貌,揭示了该材料在单调及不同幅值的循环荷载作用下的失效机理。结果表明:环槽铆钉材料轴拉应力-应变曲线无明显屈服平台,具有一定的塑性变形能力,材料具有较好的低周疲劳性能,疲劳软化呈现初始快速软化、平稳软化和后期剧烈软化的三阶段特征。基于试验结果,提出了适用于该材料的修正的Ramberg-Osgood模型,并验证了Chaboche混合强化本构模型对描述循环荷载作用下铆钉材料塑性性能的适用性,修正的Ramberg-Osgood模型能较为准确地描述环槽铆钉材料的轴拉应力-应变关系。
[42] Samanthula, Ramakrishna,Gettu, Ravindra,Paul, Sachin ,等.Effect of the end conditions on the response of glass textile reinforced cementitious composites under uniaxial tension[J].Materials and Structures,2024,57 (6):1-16,SPRINGER
摘要：Textile Reinforced Concrete is a cementitious composite with non-metallic distributed reinforcement, which could exhibit strain-hardening response under uniaxial tensile loading. The tensile behaviour must be characterized properly in order to obtain reliable and appropriate input for structural design. However, it is seen that the end conditions of the test specimen could affect the response, which is discussed in this paper by considering two extreme types of boundary conditions, with the end rotation during testing either being negated or permitted. The strains and displacements were monitored using Digital Image Correlation, along with axial extensometers. The data indicate that fixed ends result in unsymmetric cracking and non-uniform strain distribution across the lateral section of the test specimen whereas rotating ends lead to more uniform cracking and strain distributions. It was further found that the mean width of the strain localization zone is larger for rotating ends. On the other hand, ultimate stress and strain, as well as the average crack opening are comparable for both the end conditions, The maximum crack widths were in the order of 0.2 mm for about 0.8% nominal strain (i.e., close to failure), for the specimens considered. The analysis suggests that rotating end conditions be used to obtain more unambiguous response.
[43] Li, Shi-Qi,Qiang, Hong-Fu,Chen, Tie-Zhu ,等.Mesostructure Evolution Behavior of NEPE Solid Propellant under Uniaxial Tension[J].含能材料,2024,32 (2):175-182,Institute of Chemical Materials, China Academy of Engineering Physics
摘要：To analyze the mesostructure evolution behavior of nitrate ester plasticized polyether(NEPE)propellants under uniaxial quasi-static tensile load,in-situ observation test was conducted on NEPE propellants during the tensile process using Micro CT. The size and an shape of ammonium perchlorate(AP)particles and initial defects in NEPE propellants were characterized. The failure process of the mesostructure in the propellant during uniaxial tensile process was obtained,and the quantitative analysis of the changes in meso-damage of NEPE propellants was carried out using porosity. The reason for the changes of macro-mechanical properties is explained based on the evolution laws of the structure of NEPE propellant on the mesoscale. The results indicate that the initial defects size of NEPE propellant is small and the volume ratio is low,with an average value of 0.12%. In the process of uniaxial quasi-static tension,the meso-failure process of NEPE propellant mainly includes three stages,pores nucleation,growth and convergence. Although the volume fraction of AP particles is low,it is often the start of meso-damage because of easy debonding. HMX particles will also debonding after a certain degree of debonding of AP. The influence of HMX debonding behavior should be considered when analyzing the macro-mechanical properties of NEPE propellant. The nucleation and growth of a large number of mesoscopic defects is the reason why the macro-mechanical properties properties of NEPE propellant enter the nonlinear section. The phenomenon that the increase of macroscopic stress lags behind the increase of strain is more and more obvious because of the continuous convergence of mesoscopic defects. During the loading process,the porosity shows a change trend of slowly increasing first,then sharply increasing and finally increasing tends to be gentle. The change law of porosity can not only quantitatively reflect the evolution stages of the mesoscopic defects of NEPE propellant,but also
[44] Tarek Azzouni,Lysimachi Iona,Patrick Hegele ,等.A Comparative Study of Multiple Cutting Methods on Thin Ferritic Steel for Tensile Test Experiment[J].Solid State Phenomena,2026,388 :101-111
摘要：<p class="normal-text"> This study investigates the effects of various cutting technologies on a 0.25 mm thick ferritic steel, a material widely used in packaging and other lightweight applications. The study provides a comprehensive comparison of four distinct cutting technologies: Laser Cutting, Milling, Electrical Discharge Machining (EDM), and Water Jet Cutting. The research focuses on the impact of these cutting processes on the material’s properties and its performance under uniaxial tension. X-ray diffraction is used to precisely measure the magnitude and distribution of residual stresses along the cut edge in order to correlate them with changes in the material's flow curve, which is critical for accurate mechanical characterization. Furthermore, a laser-scanning microscope was used for detailed morphological analysis of the cut edge and for roughness measurement. To quantify mechanical property changes, microindentation hardness testing was used to assess the degree of work hardening induced by each cutting method. Finally, Digital Imaging Correlation (DIC) was employed to track strain distribution and observe strain field variations. </p>
[45] Xianzhi Luo,Sumei Zhang,Yuchen Zhang ,等.Mechanical properties and cracking behavior of rebar reinforced UHPC (R-UHPC) under uniaxial tension: Evaluation and design[J].Case Studies in Construction Materials,2025,22 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Incorporating steel rebar into ultra-high performance concrete (UHPC) to form rebar-reinforced UHPC (R-UHPC) represents one of the primary applications of this high-performance material. However, the issues of deformability degradation and high material cost in R-UHPC still hinder its broader application. In order to achieve the target deformability and effectively utilize steel fibers, this study systematically investigates the mechanical properties and cracking behavior of 60 UHPC specimens featuring diverse fiber dosages (0.5 %, 1.0 %, 2.0 %, and 3.0 %) and reinforcement ratios (0 %, 1.7 %, 3.0 %, 4.7 %, and 6.8 %) under axial tensile loading. The research findings reveal that the tensile deformability of R-UHPC depends on the combination of reinforcement ratio and fiber dosage, rather than a single parameter. The additional load-bearing capacity provided by strain-hardening of rebar cannot cover the load transfer from UHPC to rebar during the tensile cracking process, causing deformability degradation of R-UHPC. The tensile strength of UHPC in R-UHPC is lower than that of UHPC without rebar at the same fiber dosage, which needs to be considered when calculating the tensile load-bearing capacity. The crack resistance of R-UHPC with fiber dosage as low as 0.5 % is sufficient to meet the requirements for maximum crack width of reinforced members in all exposure classes specified in Eurocode 2 and fib Model Code 2010, which tend to overestimate the maximum crack width of low fiber dosage R-UHPC with low fiber dosage. Increasing the fiber dosage from 0.5 % onwards improves crack resistance, but the effect of reinforcement ratio variation is limited. The method for calculating the minimum reinforcement ratio to avoid tensile deformability degradation, and the method for calculating the tensile load-bearing capacity of R-UHPC are proposed and validated.
[46] Alencar, A.,Muniz-Menendez, M.,Galindo, R. .Comparison of the tensile elastic modulus estimated by the Brazilian test and the direct tensile test[M],2024,CRC PRESS-BALKEMA
摘要：Most of the rocks show bi-modular behavior, consisting that elastic modulus having different ratios in compression and tension. Being the compressive elastic modulus greater than the tensile modulus. Usually the elastic modulus is estimated in compression, given that the uniaxial compression test is widely performed. The direct tensile test requires a specific device, so the tensile strength usually is estimated by the Brazilian test. Ye et al. (2009) proposed an equation to estimate the tensile elastic modulus with the Brazilian test, using strain gauges attached in the horizontal direction on both sides of the specimen. However, they didnot have how to perform the direct tensile test to compare the results. In the present paper, the elastic modulus is obtained in three different ways: in the compression test, in the direct tensile test, and in the Brazilian test. A series of laboratory tests was done in sandstone, from Burgos, Spain.
[47] Siddiqui, Md Tareq,Keshavanarayana, Suresh,Olivares, Gerardo .Evaluation of a modified uniaxial tension test fixture for dynamic characterization of elastomers at moderate strain rate loading[J].Journal of Elastomers & Plastics,2026,SAGE PUBLICATIONS LTD
摘要：In this study, a light-weight uniaxial tension test fixture was developed which can be adapted to any uniaxial tension testing machine and used to characterize dynamic behavior of material systems such as elastomers under large deformation. Two different elastomeric materials, RTV 630 and Flexane 94 were tested at quasi-static (0.001 s-1) to moderate (100 s-1) strain rate loading to capture their dynamic behavior and investigate the repeatability and stress equilibrium aspects of the test system. Experimental results showed homogenous deformation of the specimens over the strain rate range investigated, and the specimens exhibited stiffer stress-strain response at higher strain rates. Furthermore, the experimental data were utilized to identify parameters of different hyperelastic material models, and the optimal identified material parameters were used to construct numerical models of the dynamic test system for both new and conventional mechanical grip test fixtures in LS-DYNA. The comparison of the numerical simulation with experimental results showed good agreement. Both experimental and simulation results indicate that the new test device can characterize dynamic behavior of elastomers and produce quality test data compared to conventional setup.
[48] Wang, S.,Boasen, M.,Hultgren, G. ,等.An Inverse Finite Interval Method for Evaluating the True Stress-Strain Response from Uniaxial Tension Tests[J].Experimental Mechanics,2026,66 (3):551-565,SPRINGER
摘要：BackgroundAnalysis of finite elastic-plastic deformation requires a good constitutive description of the inelastic response. A key element is the hardening function, typically evaluated from nominal data obtained from a uniaxial tension test using the Bridgman correction method in the post-necking regime. However, the true stress-strain data obtained in this way depend crucially on the quality of the optical measurements. Based on modern and sophisticated technology, several new and demanding methods have emerged over the last decade to improve the accuracy of the Bridgman correction *** develop and validate an accurate method, combining standard experimental and numerical methods for the evaluation of the true stress-strain response of an elastic-plastic *** force-displacement data for a gauge section of a round bar specimen are used as input to an inverse finite interval (IFI) method to construct the true stress-strain response at discrete points by minimising the relative error between finite element simulations and experimental *** inverse finite interval method is validated both numerically and experimentally. Synthetic force-displacement data are generated numerically for a set of power-law hardening materials, and the proposed method is then applied to reconstruct the true stress-strain curve. The method is proven to be robust, and reconstructed true stress-strain curves converge to the exact power-law function. Three markedly different steel grades are used for experimental validation by comparing the deformed geometry in the necking region between experimental and numerical results, showing good *** proposed inverse finite interval (IFI) method is an expedient and accurate method for evaluation of the true stress-strain curve from nominal data extracted from a uniaxial tension test.
[49] 徐鑫龙,赖焕生,林平 ,等.基于单应力小冲杆方法研究轧制Ti-6Al-4V钛合金各向异性拉伸性能[J].实验力学,2025,40 (5):599-607
摘要：钛合金是一种被广泛应用于航空航天、核工程、石化装备等领域的高性能材料。为了克服传统单轴拉伸试验测试钛合金各向异性力学性能需要大尺寸试样的缺点,本文基于微试样的测试方法,提出使用单应力小冲杆测试方法研究轧制Ti-6Al-4V钛合金的各向异性拉伸性能。为了验证单应力小冲杆测试方法的精度,还进行了标准单轴拉伸试验及标准小冲杆试验,标准单轴拉伸试验结果表明,试验所用的轧制Ti-6Al-4V钛合金具有明显的各向异性。对比拉伸试验与标准小冲杆试验发现,由于双向应力的作用,标准小冲杆试验不能准确测试出钛合金各向异性力学性能,而单应力小冲杆测试方法能够测试试验所用轧制Ti-6Al-4V钛合金的各向异性,且具有较高的精度,对屈服强度,Ⅰ方向(垂直轧制方向)2种试验的平均偏差为2.14%,Ⅱ方向(轧制方向)2种试验的平均偏差为3.57%,Ⅲ方向(厚度方向)2种试验的平均偏差2.14%;对抗拉强度,Ⅰ方向2种试验的平均偏差为3.60%,Ⅱ方向2种试验的平均偏差为3.53%,Ⅲ方向2种试验的平均偏差为5.34%。2种试验方法测得的各方向测试结果偏差较小,表明使用单应力小冲杆测试方法测试Ti-6Al-4V钛合金不同方向的拉伸性能具有较高的精度。
[50] 马元春,闫丽,耿小亮 ,等.单向纤维铺缝复合材料单轴拉伸性能试验及模拟研究[J].复合材料科学与工程,2026
摘要：本文针对以纤维变角度牵引铺缝技术制备的1311RTM/GW300单向纤维复合材料层合板,开展了单轴拉伸试验与数值仿真,探索了纤维偏转对材料力学性能及失效模式的影响。结果表明,相比于无铺缝试样,铺缝试样的拉伸强度与刚度均有所下降,断裂位置及裂纹扩展路径与缝纫针脚分布吻合,说明纤维局部方向偏转对力学性能产生影响。采用反映针脚处纤维偏转特征的建模方法,并结合Hashin损伤准则模拟纤维偏转与损伤演化,预测所得拉伸强度与模量同试验结果一致,应变分布特征与试验结果相同。
[51] Boyuan Gou,Yan Chen,Bincheng Yuan ,等.New insights into the multibranching phenomenon of acoustic emission in metals under uniaxial tension[J].Measurement,2026,278 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Acoustic emission (AE) is a non-destructive technique widely used for real-time monitoring of material deformation and failure. Recently, a mutibranching phenomenon was observed in AE signals from metals under uniaxial tension, providing a potential indicator for the coexistence of multiple deformation mechanisms. However, this phenomenon has been reported only in studies using the Vallen AE system and not in those employing the Physical Acoustics Corporation (PAC) system. To clarify the origin of this discrepancy, AE signals generated during uniaxial tension tests of both high-purity nickel and low-nickel 316 L stainless steel were simultaneously acquired using both systems. Comparative analysis demonstrates that the observability of the multibranching phenomenon is strongly dependent on the effective resolution of the AE acquisition systems. In the PAC system, limited resolution arising from reduced precision in stored AE parameters and errors introduced during analog-to-digital conversion obscures the multibranching features. Recalculation of AE amplitude and energy from the recorded waveforms can enhances the effective resolution and partly restore the multibranching behavior of AE signals. These results highlight the critical role of acquisition system resolution in AE measurements and provide essential guidance for reliable AE-based identification of deformation mechanisms in metallic materials.
[52] Luca, Corallo,Oana, Cazacu,Patricia, Verleysen .Numerical assessment of the role of anisotropy on strain localization in uniaxial tension[M].MATERIAL FORMING, ESAFORM 2024,2024,41 :1080-1088,MATERIALS RESEARCH FORUM LLC
摘要：Despite the experimental evidence of the effect of loading direction on the inclination of necking bands in uniaxial tension, theoretical and numerical studies are mainly devoted to isotropic materials. Recently, theoretical, numerical, and experimental works have put into evidence the key role of the material anisotropy on the formation of localized necking bands. In particular, Cazacu and Rodriguez (2019) [1] provided analytical expressions for the orientations of the necking bands that develop under uniaxial tension in flat specimens. It was shown that there is a switch in the orientation of main necking band from acute to obtuse, which is correlated with the anisotropy in yield stresses. In this paper, we conduct a FE study on virtual materials with the same anisotropy in Lankford coefficients but different anisotropy in yield stresses. We show that, although both materials have a very slight anisotropy in yield stresses, it strongly affects the localization behavior.
[53] Varvara Romanova,Maxim Pisarev,Dmitry Lychagin ,等.Multiscale deformation-induced surface pattern in additively manufactured stainless steel under uniaxial tension[J].Mechanics of Materials,2026,216 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The multiscale features of deformation-induced surface roughening in additively manufactured steel 316L samples are investigated experimentally and numerically under uniaxial tension. A set of multiscale asperities attributed to different deformation mechanisms are shown to appear in the very beginning of plastic deformation and progressively evolve in the course of tension. A link between the deformation-induced surface morphology and the hierarchical material structure inherent in laser powder bed fusion is established using the combined tools of experimental, numerical and statistical analyses. Mesoscale surface undulations attributed to the periodical grain structure make the largest contribution to roughneing throughout the entire deformation process. The differences in the deformation patterns under loading along and across laser tracks are explored and analyzed within the multiscale approach.
[54] Wei, Kefeng,He, Caihao,Zhou, Qin .Study of Mechanical Properties and Constitutive Relationship of ES-UHPC under Uniaxial Tension[J].Journal of Materials in Civil Engineering,2026,38 (4),ASCE-AMER SOC CIVIL ENGINEERS
摘要：Early-strength ultrahigh performance concrete (ES-UHPC) is used widely in road repair, as well as in emergency rescue and disaster relief operations. Previous studies focused primarily on the mechanical properties of ordinary ultrahigh performance concrete, and there are few studies of ES-UHPC. On the basis of the successful research and development of ES-UHPC, this paper selected 24 groups of dog-bone specimens for uniaxial tensile tests. The failure mode, elastic modulus, and peak strain of all the specimens were analyzed using the acoustic emission (AE) technique, and the ES-UHPC at different ages under uniaxial tension was studied. The results showed that the 1-day tensile strength of ES-UHPC reached 4.61 MPa, the tensile elastic modulus reached 28.401 GPa, and the cube compressive strength was 66.81 MPa, which exceeds that of the ordinary UHPC. The descending segments of the axial tensile stress-strain curves for specimens at ages of 3 and 7 days were notably pronounced, which suggests relatively low ductility. Additionally, the early-strength agent had limited influence on strength development during the later stages. The 28-day tensile strength and cube compressive strength of ES-UHPC were 9.13 and 151.28 MPa, respectively, indicating that the early-strength agent did not compromise the long-term strength of the specimens. Based on AE, a damage mechanism analysis and constitutive relation study of ES-UHPC were conducted. The constitutive relations of the axial tensile behavior of ES-UHPC at various curing ages were established through regression analysis, and subsequently validated using comparative evaluation against existing empirical models. This enhanced formulation enables more-accurate simulation of age-dependent stress distribution in structural components. The research achievements of this paper provide a reference for the large-scale application of ES-UHPC.
[55] 靳丽莉 .纯铜的单轴拉伸试验研究[J].模具制造,2026,26 (3):156-158
摘要：本研究对工业用T2纯铜进行了单轴拉伸试验研究,旨在系统获取其基本力学性能参数。通过电液伺服拉扭试验机开展单轴拉伸试验,结合高温引伸计测量应变,获得了纯铜在拉伸过程中的应力-应变曲线及相关力学参数。试验结果表明,T2纯铜的弹性模量为110.8 GPa,屈服强度(σ_(0.2))为30.1 MPa,抗拉强度为199.6 MPa,断后伸长率为57.5%,断面收缩率为71.1%,断裂应变为1.24。本研究为纯铜在实际工程中的力学性能评估提供了试验依据。
[56] Zhao, Weiping,Li, Bohan,Zheng, Hongli ,等.Micro finite element analysis of PVA-ECC under uniaxial tension: 3D fiber distribution and fiber-matrix modeling[J].Structural Concrete,2026,WILEY
摘要：This study investigates the micromechanical behavior of PVA-ECC under uniaxial tension via finite element simulation. The Parametric Design Language (APDL) scripting language was used in MATLAB to generate random fibers in 3D space. APDL was also used to import ANSYS to build a geometric model, considering the bond between the fiber and matrix, and simulating with spring elements. The resulting spring force-deformation curve was calibrated according to the measured data from pull-out tests between the single fiber and ECC matrix. The results show that the maximum stress position of the fiber changes during the tensile process and that spring elements can simulate the failure processes between the fiber and matrix. At any cross-section of the fiber, the summing forces from the spring elements of both ends are always equal to 0. The accuracy of the model is verified, and it provides a method for predicting the mechanical behavior in the ECC tensile process.
[57] Yunfei Wang,Haijun Wang,Zhende Zhu ,等.Propagation and fracture mechanism of an internal crack in brittle solid based on 3D-ILC under uniaxial tension[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,139 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Owing to the low tensile strength of rocks, internal crack expansion under tensile loading is highly susceptible to causing rock engineering failure without warning. In order to reveal the propagation and fracture mechanism of 3D internal cracks under tensile loading, uniaxial tensile tests. numerical simulations were carried out in this study using the 3D-ILC (3D-internal laser-engraved crack) method for prefabricated 3D internal cracks inside transparent rock-like materials. The results indicate that: under axial tension, the crack propagation surface is “S” shaped from the inside to the outside through the outer surface of the specimen, near the left and right side boundaries of the crack surface in the principal max tensile stress is approximately horizontal; According to the distribution and direction of the Wallner lines of the fracture surface, it is known that the prefabricated crack firstly propagates in the ring under the action of uniaxial tension and then changes into a wave shape to propagate to the transverse boundaries on both sides; The trend of crack propagation under uniaxial tension at different inclination angles was basically the same, and the relationship between <em>K</em><sub>II</sub>/<em>K</em><sub>I</sub> and crack deflection angle is revealed by mutual verification of the theoretical formula of energy release rate and numerical simulation results, i.e., the pre-crack inclination angle increases, <em>K</em><sub>II</sub>/<em>K</em><sub>I</sub> increases subsequently, and the crack deflection angle also increases. The research findings will serve as experimental and numerical references for studies on the propagation and fracture mechanism of internal cracks under tensile loading conditions across a spectrum of brittle materials, including rocks.
[58] Aparici-Gil, Alejandro,Pena, Estefania,Perez, Marta M. .Uniaxial, biaxial, and planar tension properties of deep fascia and a constitutive model to simultaneously reproduce these strain states[J].Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology,2025,13 ,FRONTIERS MEDIA SA
摘要：This study aims to provide an in-depth analysis of the mechanical behavior of deep fascia through a comprehensive multidimensional characterization, including uniaxial, biaxial, and planar tension tests. To determine material parameters via test fitting, both a newly developed coupled exponential energy function and a previously proposed uncoupled exponential model-both considering two perpendicular fiber directions-are evaluated. For the uniaxial response, the mean stress measured was 3.96 MPa in the longitudinal direction and 0.6 MPa in the transverse direction at a stretch ( lambda ) of 1.055. In planar tension tests, stress values of 0.43 MPa and 0.11 MPa were recorded for the longitudinal and transverse directions, respectively, at lambda = 1.72. Under equibiaxial loading conditions, the mean stresses were 3.16 MPa and 1.2 MPa for the longitudinal and transverse directions when lambda reached 1.037, respectively. The fitting results indicate that while the uncoupled exponential model effectively captures the uniaxial and equibiaxial experimental data, it fails to predict other mechanical responses accurately. In contrast, the coupled exponential strain energy function (SEF) demonstrates robust performance in both fitting and prediction. Additionally, an analysis was conducted to assess how the number and combination of tests influence the determination of material parameters. Findings suggest that a single biaxial test incorporating three loading ratios is sufficient to accurately capture and predict uniaxial, planar tension, and other biaxial strain states.
[59] Szabo, Gyula,Varadi, Karoly .FE micromodel of a cord-rubber composite tube sample subjected to uniaxial tension[J].Journal of Reinforced Plastics and Composites,2023,42 (9-10):393-404,SAGE PUBLICATIONS LTD
摘要：The aim of this study is to examine displacements, strains and stresses of a railway composite cord-rubber air brake tube undergoing uniaxial tension by microscale modelling. The micromodel is based on the macromodels (by matching the boundary conditions of the micromodels with displacements of the macromodels) created previously by authors of this article. The reinforcing yarns are described by an orthotropic, elastic material model, whereas the matrix has been described by a 2 parameter Mooney-Rivlin model, which all have been validated before by a uniaxial tensile test and a three-point bending test. Force-displacement curves of the micromodel and experimental results show a considerably good agreement. Failure of the reinforcement layers does not occur in case of the uniaxial tension of the composite tube sample, there was no failure event observed during the experiment of the tube sample. Load transfer mechanism has been demonstrated and characterized numerically by strain and stress results inside and between reinforcement layers (implying shear plays a dominant role in the load-transfer mechanism). The microscale nature of the FE model ensures that the strain and stress results are representative for the reinforcement layers.
[60] Qing, Longbang,Bi, Mengdi,Rong, Hua ,等.Reinforcing Cementitious Composite Open-Hole Plate Subjected to Uniaxial Tension Using Full-Field Aligned Steel Fibers[J].Journal of Materials in Civil Engineering,2023,35 (10),ASCE-AMER SOC CIVIL ENGINEERS
摘要：Opening holes in construction structures is used often to allocate electrical or ventilating lines. However, it may result in stress concentration and hence the reduction in mechanical properties. In order to manage these problems, an approach of preparing full-field aligned steel fiber-reinforced cementitious composites (FASFRC) around the hole is proposed to maximize the effect of reinforcement of steel fibers around the hole by aligning the steel fibers according to the direction of local tensile stress. Thus, the approach of preparing an open-hole plate using FASFRC is developed. The advantage of FASFRC in improving the uniaxial tensile performance of the open-hole is investigated by comparing the performance with that of specimens using ordinary steel fiber-reinforced cementitious composites (SFRC) and aligned steel fiber-reinforced cementitious composites (ASFRC). The evolution of the failure process of the specimens subjected to uniaxial tension is monitored using the digital image correlation (DIC) method, and numerical simulation is carried out to calculate the optimal fiber volume dosage around the hole and the stress concentration factor. The experimental results show that in the FASFRC specimens, the fibers are effectively aligned- the direction of tensile stress and more steel fibers are allocated in the area around the hole. The uniaxial tensile strength of FASFRC is 43% to 49% higher than that of SFRC and ASFRC with various fiber volume dosages. The tensile work and uniaxial tensile toughness ratio of FASFRC are 35%-52% and 7%-21% higher than that of SFRC and ASFRC. The full-field deformation obtained from DIC shows that FASFRC tends to exhibit multicracking and strain-hardening behavior, which are different from SFRC and ASFRC. The modeling results have good agreement with the tests for various types of specimens;hence, the numerical simulation on the uniaxial tensile test of FASFRC is reliable. The numerical results show that the optimal fiber volum
[61] Shen Zhou,Xiaoyu Ji,Liping Li ,等.The Mechanism of Rockbolts in Jointed Rock under Uniaxial Tension[J].KSCE Journal of Civil Engineering,2023,27 (11):4938-4947,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this research, the rockbolt mechanism of a jointed rock mass under uniaxial tension was systematically revealed with a laboratory test and a numerical simulation. It was found that the rockbolt rock mass experienced five stages under uniaxial tension, the densification stage, elastic stage, plastic deformation stage, progressive debonding stage, and complete debonding stage. The stress-strain curve and ultimate tensile strength of a rockbolt rock mass were analyzed by taking the rockbolt spacing and rockbolt angle as variables. It was found that the improvement effect of the reduction of the rockbolt spacing on the ultimate tensile strength was limited. When the rockbolt spacing was reduced to a certain limit, the stress concentration area between adjacent rockbolts was connected and destroyed, resulting in the increase of the rockbolt rock strength becoming smaller, and even having a downward trend. The increase of the rockbolt angle led to the change of the stress mode and failure mode of the whole structure, and the ultimate tensile strength first increased and then decreased. The optimal rockbolt angle was between 60° and 70°. It is worth noting that there was an obvious mechanical occlusion between the thread on the rockbolt surface and the rock mass, resulting in the multi-stage step-down characteristic of the stress-strain curve in the complete debonding stage. The results of this study can provide a reference for the design and construction of similar projects.
[62] Jin-Zhao Li,Zhi-Ping Guan .A re-evaluation of super-high ductility mechanism in superplastic uniaxial tension[J].International Journal of Mechanical Sciences,2025,289 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Existing mechanical theories fall short in explaining the origin of delocalization behavior and the associated fluctuation phenomena observed in superplastic quasi-stable tension, which typically results in extraordinarily high fracture elongation. This study introduces a novel phenomenological model that accounts for the stick-slip effect arising from discontinuities in grain boundary sliding (GBS) during superplastic deformation. Experimental observations from uniaxial tension tests on a Zn-5Al superplastic alloy at 230 °C validate the accuracy of the simulations, which demonstrate static-kinetic coordinated deformation during each serrated fluctuation. Additionally, the simulations indicate that the stick-slip effect triggers dynamic delocalization behavior in superplastic tension, elucidating the nucleation and growth of additional micro-necks. Although this dynamic delocalization disrupts the initially stable flow, it significantly mitigates the development of macro-necks during unstable plastic flow, potentially leading to quasi-stable tensile deformation devoid of prominent macro-necks as the stick-slip effect intensifies. Notably, this study identifies for the first time the phenomenon of stress reduction during superplastic tension with jerky flow, attributable to an oscillatory stress induced by the GBS stick-slip effect superimposed on a static stress backdrop. The combined effects of GBS-induced stick-slip behavior and high strain rate sensitivity contribute to the extraordinarily large elongations observed in superplastic tension. Overall, the phenomenological model developed in this work not only clarifies the mechanical reasons behind specific phenomena in superplastic uniaxial tension, often overlooked by conventional mechanical analyses, but also proposes a new approach to enhancing superplastic deformation.
[63] 郭珺慈 .纤维混凝土在单轴拉伸下的性能研究[J].价值工程,2026,45 (9):119-121
摘要：杆塔的混凝土基础在工作状态时,会受到下压力和上拔力,而普通混凝土虽有很强的抗压承载力,但是其受拉承载力很弱。改善混凝土的抗拉性能的有效技术方法之一是掺入纤维,以这种方式处理的材料被称为纤维增强混凝土。本文试图通过数值模拟讨论在混凝土中加入钢纤维对单轴拉伸下混凝土性能的影响。试验结果表明,纤维的加入使得试件的抗拉承载力增强。但是由于粗骨料和钢纤维的随机投放会引起砂浆及界面的应力不均,试件承载力及韧性的增强与纤维的含量不完全正相关。
[64] 陈帅甫,杨滨,郭志伟 ,等.基于小冲杆试验的CrMo钢主蒸汽管道焊接接头拉伸性能退化表征[J].化工设备与管道,2025,62 (2):99-104
摘要：精准表征管道长时间服役后的拉伸性能退化情况,是开展主蒸汽管剩余寿命评估的关键基础。但是,焊接接头的焊缝、热影响区等关键局部微区尺寸有限,无法采用标准试样单轴拉伸测试拉伸性能。文章选取服役26年的1.25Cr-0.5Mo主蒸汽管道焊接接头进行深入研究。结合微观组织观测结果,采用小冲杆实验和显微硬度实验,对接头局部微区的拉伸性能退化情况进行了细致表征。研究结果发现:焊缝区域屈服、抗拉强度显著高于母材;热影响区受非均匀微观组织影响,强度存在显著波动,整体介于焊缝与母材之间,其中最小抗拉强度出现在临界热影响区(ICHAZ),约为520.4MPa。此外,根据接头不同微区间强度-硬度存在的线性化分布规律,拟合获取了抗拉强度与硬度间的关联公式,即可通过工程中的硬度测试来反映焊接接头不同微区的抗拉强度,从而为安全评定和维修提供指导。
[65] Hao Zhang,Mingzhou Su,Sen Yuan ,等.Mechanical behavior evaluation of stainless steel anchor channels with channel bolts under uniaxial tension[J].Construction and Building Materials,2024,416 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Stainless steel anchor channels with channel bolts (SSAC-CBs) provide reliable and flexible fastening for connecting steel fixtures to concrete members subjected to atmospheric or permanently damp internal conditions such as those found in industrial and residential buildings. This study performed static tensile tests to evaluate the mechanical performance of SSAC-CBs (without considering concrete embedment) including their failure modes, load-carrying capacities, ductilities, and strain responses. A total of 30 SSAC-CB specimens were fabricated and tested by varying the tensile loading location, channel type, stainless steel grade, and anchor-to-channel connection configuration. The specimens presented four failure modes: bending deformation of the channel, fracture at the weld connecting the I-shaped anchor to the channel back, localized yielding of the channel lips, and yielding of the anchor. The ductility factors of the specimens were between 5.54 and 9.99 with an average of 7.29, and their peak-to-yield load ratios varied from 1.30 to 2.32. These results indicate that all SSAC-CB assemblies exhibited adequate tensile strength and safety potential as well as the potential for plastic development. Finite element models of the SSAC-CBs were established and validated against the experimental results. Parameter analysis was subsequently conducted to investigate the influence of key parameters on the tensile behaviors of SSAC-CBs, indicating that the thicknesses of the channel web and lips significantly affected the load-bearing capacity and failure mode. When tensile load was applied at the channel midspan, the anchor spacing had a significant effect on the load-bearing capacity and initial stiffness, whereas it had a minor effect on the same when loaded above the anchor. Finally, the restraint of channel deformation by neighboring spans enhanced the load-bearing capacity and thus had a positive effect on the tensile responses of SSAC-CBs. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[66] Caballero-Jorna, Marta,Virgulto, Giorgio,Serna, Pedro ,等.Uniaxial Tension Tests on Macro-synthetic FRC at Different Environmental Temperatures[M].TRANSFORMING CONSTRUCTION: ADVANCES IN FIBER REINFORCED CONCRETE, BEFIB 2024,2024,54 :327-334,SPRINGER INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHING AG
摘要：Macro-Synthetic Fiber Reinforced Concretes (MSFRCs) have emerged not long ago if compared with other types of Fiber Reinforced Concretes (FRCs). They have mainly used in non-structural works but in nowadays, MSFRCs are becoming gradually accepted in the structural field. To reach this situation, a characterization of this complex material is needed and although several authors have contributed to the study of their behaviour, many aspects require further investigation in this area. This experimental study addresses the effect of environmental temperatures on the tensile behavior of MSFRC after a short-period of exposure. To carry out this, one type of concrete matrix is selected and reinforced with 8 kg/m(3) of a commercial Class II macro-synthetic fiber. Uniaxial tension tests are conducted on notched cylinders of MSFRC obtained by coring from standard prismatic beams. The tests are performed at the temperatures ranging from -30 degrees C to 40 degrees C using an environmental chamber to maintain controlled temperature conditions throughout the experiments. The results show that temperature variations influence on the tension behavior of MSFRC. High temperatures lead to a decline in MSFRC performance, whereas an increase is noted at temperatures below zero.
[67] Yu, Qiong,Wen, Zuorui,Tang, Ziming ,等.Mechanical Behavior of Grouted Sleeve Butt and Lap Joints with Anti-Deflection Measures Under Uniaxial Tension and High-Stress Cyclic Loading[J].Applied Sciences,2026,16 (4),MDPI
摘要：Featured Application The grouting sleeve lap joint has the advantages of a large inner diameter, which is convenient for construction and has a low production cost. It can be used to connect components in prefabricated concrete structures, such as prefabricated columns and shear walls. The results clarify the appropriate lap length and the application of anti-deflection *** To compare the mechanical performance differences between sleeve grouting lap and butt joints, a total of 41 lap joints, including 27 standard lap joints and 14 anti-deflection lap joints, and 20 butt joints were subjected to tensile and high-stress cyclic tensile-compression tests. The results indicate that both types of joints failed by tensile fracture of the rebars in uniaxial tension, with the load-bearing capacity, total elongation at maximum force, and ductility generally meeting the code requirements. In high-stress cyclic tests, the load-bearing capacity of both types of joints increased, while the initial stiffness and ductility decreased. The residual deformation of the anti-deflection lap joints and butt joints generally met the specification requirements. Anti-deflection measures can reduce the residual deformation of lap joints;however, their constraint stiffness is limited, resulting in slightly greater residual deformation of lap joints compared to butt joints. After the completion of the high-stress cyclic tensile-compression tests, the maximum longitudinal strain near the reinforcement side of the sleeve's middle cross-section in lap joints and the absolute value of the maximum circumferential compressive strain were both less than those in butt joints, indicating that lap joints have lower tensile performance requirements for the sleeve. Based on experimental results, a lap length of 12.5 d is recommended, with an additional 4-6 d allowance to enhance splice reliability under high-stress cyclic loading.
[68] Kim, Minki,Chae, Yujin,Kim, Min-Su .Identification of Stress-Strain Relation in Uniaxial Tension of Sn-3.0Ag-0.5Cu Solder Based on Digital Image Correlation[J].Journal of Electronic Materials,2026,55 (2):1648-1663,SPRINGER
摘要：This study aims to precisely identify the tensile stress-strain relation of a Sn-3.0Ag-0.5Cu (SAC305) solder using the digital image correlation (DIC) method. Uniaxial tensile tests are generally carried out to obtain stress-strain curves with dog-bone-type specimens. Strain data during the tests are measured using sensing systems such as mechanical extensometer, visual extensometer, and strain gauge. Because it is difficult to confirm the strain distribution in the specimen with these sensing systems, the digital image correlation system has recently been increasingly used for obtaining displacement and strain data in tension tests. SAC305 usually shows nonuniform deformation during tensile tests, unlike conventional metal alloys, although the gauge section is designed to be uniformly deformed following a standard procedure for tensile tests. Therefore, it is necessary to develop a method for the identification of tensile properties when the deformation in tension is nonuniform. In this study, tensile tests with the DIC system were conducted to obtain stress-strain curves of the SAC305 under different loading speeds. The strain distribution was analyzed in terms of variation in strain rate and strain path. An identification method was then proposed by collecting valid stress data according to the strain and their fit using a material hardening model. Based on the proposed method, the stress-strain curves can be acquired up to a larger strain region than with the conventional method. This will be useful for obtaining material properties for simulation of packaging reliability for electronic devices.
[69] 田亮,陈宁贤,刘丰优 ,等.基于DIC的复合材料层压板单轴拉伸全场形变分析[J].交通工程,2025,25 (12):1-7,59
摘要：针对复合材料层压板单轴拉伸下的全场变形表征问题,采用数字图像相关技术(Digital Image Correlation,DIC)进行高精度非接触变形测量。系统地阐述DIC技术的基本原理和Newton-Raphson亚像素位移测量算法;采用高斯随机斑点法生成模拟散斑图,开展刚体位移试验评估DIC程序的固有误差,分析不同子区半径下的位移均值误差和标准差;在模拟图像中引入一组高斯噪声,计算结果显示DIC程序在一定噪声条件下仍具有较好的鲁棒性;在复合材料层压板表面制作随机人工散斑,基于DIC得到层压板单轴拉伸时的表面位移场分布,同时采用ABAQUS对层压板的准静态拉伸过程进行数值仿真,DIC试验测量得到的位移场与数值仿真结果在分布趋势上相同,相对误差在可接受范围内,验证DIC在复合材料层压板单轴拉伸全场形变测量中的可靠性。未来有望提升硬件性能和改进算法水平,进一步推动DIC技术在工程测量中的应用。
[70] Zhao, Hengyi,Lei, Peidong,Yang, Pengfei ,等.Discussions on Accurately and Efficiently Capturing Necking Onset in Uniaxial Tension Using Finite Element Modeling[J].Acta Mechanica Solida Sinica,2026,39 (3):241-250,SPRINGER
摘要：Necking during uniaxial tension is a widely studied mechanical phenomenon of both theoretical and practical importance. This study investigates how to capture its onset accurately and efficiently using finite element methods. Various element types and boundary conditions are examined, including hexahedral, tetrahedral, and reduced-dimensional truss elements, under both displacement- and force-controlled loading. A counterintuitive force application issue is identified in commercial software when using tetrahedral elements, and the impact of mixed-element meshes is evaluated. It is shown that accurate necking prediction with hexahedral elements under displacement control requires a high aspect ratio and a fine mesh, while force control achieves similar accuracy with only a few elements. Truss elements perform reliably across all settings, even with minimal discretization. In contrast, mixing tetrahedral and hexahedral elements introduces errors: mesh refinement can reduce strain non-uniformity but not fully eliminate instability prediction deviations. These findings provide practical guidance for selecting element types and mesh strategies in necking simulations.
[71] Dongming Huang,Xinyu Chen,Zhenzhen Liu ,等.Microwire steel fiber-reinforced geopolymer recycled aggregate concrete under uniaxial compression and tension: Mechanical properties and constitutive models[J].Construction and Building Materials,2025,459 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Geopolymer recycled aggregate concrete has significantly reduced carbon emissions associated with building materials while promoting the resource utilization of industrial solid waste and waste concrete, demonstrating substantial development potential. This paper presented a novel low-carbon microwire steel fiber-reinforced geopolymer recycled aggregate concrete (MSF-GRC) applied to concrete-filled steel tube (CFST) structures and concrete-filled fiber-reinforced polymer (FRP) tube (CFFT) concrete structures. The effects of the recycled coarse aggregate (RCA) replacement rate and the microwire steel fiber (MSF) volume content on the uniaxial compressive and tensile properties and the stress-strain behaviors of this new concrete were investigated. Additionally, the mechanical mechanisms associated with RCA and MSF were elucidated. The results indicated that incorporating RCA reduced the compressive and tensile strength of MSF-GRC by less than 20 %. However, adding 1.5 % MSF could effectively mitigate the performance degradation associated with RCA and enhance the energy absorption capacity of GRC under tensile stress by 204 %. Furthermore, prediction formulas for strength, elastic modulus, and peak strain specific to MSF-GRC were developed by introducing the coarse aggregate influence coefficient. Finally, a uniaxial compressive and tensile stress-strain constitutive relation model tailored for MSF-GRC was proposed.
[72] Zhang, Min,Li, Kunsong,Lu, Dan ,等.Mechanical properties of longitudinal steel bar C-shaped groove connection under uniaxial tension[J].建筑科学与工程学报,2024,41 (2):58-65,Editorial Department of Journal of Architecture and Civil Engineering
摘要：In order to improve the construction efficiency of prefabricated longitudinal reinforcement connection, the C-shaped groove connection method was proposed. Nine connectors were made and uniaxial tensile tests were carried out to observe their failure modes. The load-displacement curve and strain development process of specimens were studied, and the influence of different anchor plate diameters on the connection performance of connectors was analyzed. Based on the calculation formula of local compression of concrete, the calculation formula of bearing capacity of C-shaped groove connection steel bar was derived. The fitting table of different anchorage plate diameters and the diameter of steel bar with anchorage plate was given. The results show that the connector with anchor plate diameter of 43 mm and 48 mm has tensile failure of steel bars with anchor plate, and the load-displacement curve is similar to the load-displacement curve of single steel bar, which can meet the strength requirements of JGJ 107—2016 and ACI 318. Anchor plate diameter of 38 mm connector is based on JGJ 256—2011 specification to select the diameter of the anchor plate, and the pull-out failure of the steel bar with anchor plate occurs during the test. It is proved that according to the specification, the diameter of the anchor plate is too small to meet the connection requirements. The loaddisplacement curve of the connector with the diameter of 38 mm is wavy. Although the bearing capacity is less than the former two, it still has good ductility and high residual bearing capacity. The C-shaped grooves of all connectors have small strain values throughout the loading process and are always in the elastic stage. The circumferential strain of C-shaped grooves is compressive strain. The theoretical calculation results of bearing capacity of C-shaped groove connection steel bar are consistent with the experimental results. © 2024, Editorial Department of Journal of Architecture and Civil Enginee
[73] Shuxia Lin,Xingrong Chu,Dengyun Feng ,等.Electric pulse-induced suppression of the Portevin – Le Chatelier behavior of 5086 aluminum alloy under uniaxial tension[J].Materials Science and Engineering: A,2024,911 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The electrical-assisted tensile tests of 5086 Al alloy sheets with different current parameters were carried out at room temperature with a frequency of 150 Hz and voltages of 50 V, 60 V and 70 V. It was found that the serrated plastic instability (named PLC effect) was eliminated as the pulse current increased to 150 Hz/60 V, but the PLC effect was observed with 150 Hz/50 V. To distinguish the thermal effect and athermal effects of pulse current on PLC effect, the comparative heating tensile (HT) test in furnace with a temperature rising trend of 150 Hz/60 V was conducted. The obtained curves still showed serrated flow behavior, indicating that the thermal effect was insufficient to suppress the PLC effect. The influence of pulse current on the microstructure and texture evolution was investigated through TEM and EBSD. According to the microscopic analysis, the pulse current accelerated the solute atoms' diffusion and dislocation movement. S orientation {123}<634> of 150 Hz/60 V presented more obvious transformation compared with that of HT specimen. It was illustrated that the athermal effect of pulse current plays an important role in the crystal orientation and suppressing the PLC effect. © 2024
[74] Zhou, Shen,Ji, Xiaoyu,Li, Liping ,等.The Mechanism of Rockbolts in Jointed Rock under Uniaxial Tension[J].KSCE Journal of Civil Engineering,2023,KOREAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS-KSCE
摘要：In this research, the rockbolt mechanism of a jointed rock mass under uniaxial tension was systematically revealed with a laboratory test and a numerical simulation. It was found that the rockbolt rock mass experienced five stages under uniaxial tension, the densification stage, elastic stage, plastic deformation stage, progressive debonding stage, and complete debonding stage. The stress-strain curve and ultimate tensile strength of a rockbolt rock mass were analyzed by taking the rockbolt spacing and rockbolt angle as variables. It was found that the improvement effect of the reduction of the rockbolt spacing on the ultimate tensile strength was limited. When the rockbolt spacing was reduced to a certain limit, the stress concentration area between adjacent rockbolts was connected and destroyed, resulting in the increase of the rockbolt rock strength becoming smaller, and even having a downward trend. The increase of the rockbolt angle led to the change of the stress mode and failure mode of the whole structure, and the ultimate tensile strength first increased and then decreased. The optimal rockbolt angle was between 60 & DEG;and 70 & DEG;. It is worth noting that there was an obvious mechanical occlusion between the thread on the rockbolt surface and the rock mass, resulting in the multi-stage step-down characteristic of the stress-strain curve in the complete debonding stage. The results of this study can provide a reference for the design and construction of similar projects.
[75] 王小娟,崔浩儒,周宏元 ,等.玄武岩纤维增强泡沫混凝土的单轴拉伸及准静态压缩性能[J].复合材料学报,2023,40 (3):1569-1585
摘要：为研究玄武岩纤维增强泡沫混凝土的力学性能,共设计了52组试件,讨论了玄武岩纤维体积掺量和纤维长度对各密度试件的拉伸和压缩性能的影响。结果表明:玄武岩纤维可显著提高试件的抗拉峰值应力(最大提升达到737%)和峰值应变(最大提升达到833%),可有效改善中高密度试件的受拉失效模式,使其出现伪应变硬化现象,提升了试件的抗拉承载能力和变形能力。试件抗拉峰值应力和峰值应变随纤维体积掺量增大而增大,随纤维长度增长先增大后降低;另一方面,玄武岩纤维能改变试件的受压破坏模式,使其从纵向劈裂破坏转变为斜向剪切破坏和横向压溃破坏,显著提高了中低密度试件的抗压承载力和吸能能力(最大提升达到328%)。试件的吸能能力随纤维体积掺量增大而增强,随纤维长度增长先提升后降低。
[76] Zhu, Jun,Deng, Jianhui,Pak, Ronald Y. S. ,等.Experimental study on the failure process of water-bearing rock under uniaxial tension based on dominant frequency analysis of acoustic emission[J].Bulletin of Engineering Geology and the Environment,2023,82 (6):1-17,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：Water has substantial effects on the tensile failure behavior of rock engineering materials in excavations and underground openings. However, our understanding of the tensile failure process of wet rock and its water-weakening mechanism is limited. In this sense, a series of uniaxial tension tests, coupled with acoustic emission (AE) signal monitoring, were carried out on dry, natural, and saturated marble rock. Importantly, the dominant frequencies of AE waveforms recorded during the tension loading were analyzed by a newly introduced quantitative statistical method. The test results show that the increasing water content of marble rock leads to significant strength reductions while having no relation with the twin-peak feature of dominant frequency bands of AE waveforms. The statistical analysis suggests that the dominant micro-tensile failures always appear before micro-shear failures and increase slightly with an increase in water content. The weak pore water pressure causes the initial release moments of micro-tensile failures for natural and saturated rocks to be advanced. With increasing water contents, more micro-tensile failures carrying less energy occur, while the amount and energy of micro-shear failure both reduce significantly. The mechanism involved in the drastic tensile strength reduction is likely to be friction weakening because of the water films, which is manifested by a significant loss in the amount and energy of micro-shear failures. This work provides a reasonable explanation for the tensile strength reduction of water-bearing rock by connecting the rock micro-failure and the dominant frequency of AE waveform signals released.
[77] Liu, E. Q.,Wang, Y. F.,Hao, X. ,等.The Uniaxial Rate Sensitivity Characteristics of Polymers at Uniaxial Tension Process under Loading Control Mode[J].Mechanics of Solids,2025,60 (3):2225-2233,PLEIADES PUBLISHING LTD
摘要：Uniaxial stretching is a commonly method for testing the mechanical properties of materials. The polymer materials are rate-sensitive due to their viscoelastoplastic behavior during loading. It is vital to consider the time-dependent characteristics of polymer mechanical behavior. The paper conducted creep and uniaxial tensile tests with different loading rates using Nylon 12 (PA12) as a typical polymer material, and the corresponding viscoelastic parameters were obtained through creep experiments. For the loading control mode condition, we can define a linear loading process in a stretching experiment with a certain stress rate. The loading process is divided into n equal segments, and the result is approximated as the sum of n step loading processes with a constant equivalent load. Based on these, a rate sensitivity model was constructed based on the generalized Kelvin model and superposition principle for uniaxial tension under the loading control mode. The results show that the model can match the experiential results well in the viscoelastic section of the tensile stress-strain curve. The model can effectively reflect the rate sensitivity characteristics of the viscoelastic section under loading control mode. However, a significant deviation begins to appear before entering the viscoelastic-plastic stage due to the small deformation assumption and the change of physical properties in the viscoplastic deformation stage of the material.
[78] Yadav, Ravi Datt,Gautam, Vijay .Effect of Magnetic Field on Deformation Behavior of a Steel Sheet in Uniaxial Tension[J].Journal of Testing and Evaluation (JOTE),2023,52 (1):141-164,AMER SOC TESTING MATERIALS
摘要：This paper discusses the effect of magnetic fields on the tensile properties of high-strength carbon-manganese steel sheets in uniaxial tension. An electromagnetic tool was designed and fabricated such that it produced a constant magnetic field of 0.35 T in the gauge length of a tensile specimen during testing. Experimental measurements of magnetic flux density distribution confirm the model, which is further validated with theoretical analysis. The tensile properties are examined with and without the effect of a magnetic field. A significant improvement is observed in tensile strength and normal anisotropy of the material because of the effect of the magnetic field. Samples were taken from the middle of specimens that were tested with 20 % plastic strain for microstructural investigations using the electron backscattered diffraction technique, and in all cases experiments were performed with and without the magnetic field. Geometrically necessary dislocations maps exhibiting the measure of dislocation density during plastic deformation show lesser accumulation of dislocations at the grain boundaries with the effect of the magnetic field, which indicates hindrance to the movement of dislocations as a result of the severe interaction of dislocations with the magnetic domains. The results also show an increase in grain size and the development of a weak texture for the tested specimens with the applied magnetic field as compared with the specimens tested without the magnetic field. The microstructural findings correlate with changes in the tensile properties.
[79] 饶烽瑞 .基于近场动力学方法的多孔材料单轴拉伸断裂韧性研究[J].建筑材料学报,2023,26 (4):369-377
摘要：基于近场动力学方法模拟了单刃缺口多孔材料的单轴拉伸试验,通过与文献数据对比验证了数值模拟方法的有效性,对孔隙率为3%~15%的多孔材料进行模拟,得到了其断裂韧性的变化规律,并分析了其增韧机理.结果表明:在单轴拉伸作用下,多孔材料的断裂韧性随着孔隙率的增加先增大后减小,在孔隙率为12%时达到峰值;在单轴拉伸过程中,局部孔隙吸引导致的主裂纹偏转和次裂纹萌生是多孔材料断裂韧性提升的主要原因.
[80] Yu, Yong,Zhou, Lingzhu,Khodadadi, Nima ,等.Size Effects on Uniaxial Compression and Tension in Recycled Aggregate Concrete Fabricated Using Conventional and Equivalent Mortar Volume Techniques[J].Journal of Materials in Civil Engineering,2026,38 (4),ASCE-AMER SOC CIVIL ENGINEERS
摘要：The equivalent mortar volume (EMV) method, praised for being cost-effective and efficient in improving recycled aggregate concrete (RAC) with minimal natural aggregates, is nevertheless complex regarding the internal structural impacts on uniaxial mechanical properties and size effects. This study rigorously investigates these size effects on RAC's uniaxial tensile and compressive behaviors, fabricated via conventional and EMV methodologies, through extensive experimental and numerical analyses. Two-dimensional random polygonal aggregate models and discrete element mesomodels with heterogeneous properties were initially developed. After calibration, the impacts of the water-to-cement ratio, recycled aggregate content, and fabrication methods on compressive and tensile strengths, elastic modulus, and peak strains were thoroughly evaluated. Ultimately, size reduction coefficients for tensile and compressive strengths are proposed for practical application. Key findings include the following: (1) The EMV method significantly augments RAC's elastic modulus and compressive strength, with a lesser effect on tensile strength. (2) Compared to conventional RAC with the same water-to-cement ratio, RAC produced using the EMV method exhibits delayed compressive damage and less severe damage overall, while tensile damage remains unchanged. Both types show similar failure patterns and crack distributions. (3) The size effect on compressive strength in the EMV method-cast-RAC aligns with that of natural aggregate concrete (NAC) with a similar water-to-cement ratio, exhibiting greater sensitivity than conventional RAC. In contrast, the tensile strength size effect is more akin to conventional RAC and less pronounced than NAC. (4) For RAC fabricated using the EMV method, size reduction coefficients of 0.70 for compressive strength and 0.77 for tensile strength are recommended for sizes ranging from 50 mm to 400 mm.
[81] Tu, Nguyen Huu,Van Thanh, Nguyen,Van Manh, Dang ,等.Atomistic simulation of two-dimensional 1T-MnX2 sheets under uniaxial tension[J].Edelweiss Applied Science and Technology,2025,9 (4):1332-1342,Learning Gate
摘要：We investigate the mechanical properties of two-dimensional 1T-MnX2 materials through the molecular dynamics finite element method with the Stillinger-Weber potential. The two-dimensional Young’s modulus, Poisson’s coefficient, maximum stress, and strain of these materials are examined for four 1T-MnX2 sheets. The effects of the armchair and zigzag directions on the mechanical properties under uniaxial tension are considered and discussed. Under uniaxial tension, we have determined the main mechanical properties. For 1T-MnO2, the maximum stress (σt) was 16.794 N/m in the armchair direction, and the maximum elastic modulus (Et) was 154.96 N/m in the zigzag direction. For 1T-MnTe2, the maximum Poisson's ratio (ν) observed was 0.181 in the armchair direction. These materials are considered approximately isotropic and are characterized by brittle fracture. Simulation results will help to design and use two-dimensional 1T-MnX2 sheet-based nanocomposites and nanodevices. © 2025 by the authors;licensee Learning Gate.
[82] Lei, Wei-Sheng,Qian, Guian,Zhang, Peilei .Validation of local approach-based statistical models for cleavage fracture of ferritic steels in uniaxial tension[J].Fatigue & Fracture of Engineering Materials & Structures,2024,47 (5):1807-1814,WILEY
摘要：Five major local approach (LA)-based statistical cleavage fracture models are evaluated in uniaxial tension. The focus is to inspect their mathematical conformity to the axiom of probability on normality and their physical adherence to the consensus that cleavage fracture occurs after plastic deformation. Only the LA model that incorporates a stress-state and temperature dependent threshold satisfies both requirements. Two sets of experimental data in uniaxial tension are analyzed to support the arguments. The normality axiom of probability applies to any probability model. It is a consensus that cleavage fracture of steels is preceded by plastic yielding. 5 statistical cleavage fracture models are checked by the 2 points in uniaxial tension. 1 model observes both points;4 models fail to satisfy both criteria.
[83] Ziyu Ma,Elliot Cooksey-Nash,Madeleine Bignon ,等.Dynamic precipitation in Al–Zn–Mg–Cu Alloys: A comparative analysis of uniaxial tension and cross-die forming[J].Journal of Alloys and Compounds,2025,1032 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Al–Zn-Mg–Cu alloys are known for their exceptional mechanical properties, primarily achieved through precipitation hardening. This study investigates the dynamic precipitation behaviour in a pre-aged AA7075 alloy under uniaxial tension and cross-die forming at 180 °C. In-situ synchrotron small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) revealed a non-monotonic precipitate growth behaviour under uniaxial tension, where growth was initially accelerated but slowed as strain exceeded 7%. Synchrotron SAXS and wide-angle X-ray scattering (WAXS) were used to simultaneously map precipitation and deformation across regions with varied strain conditions in samples subjected to warm cross-die forming demonstrating local variations in precipitation and dislocation arrangement, along with an inverse dependence of precipitate growth on plastic strain. A modified Kampmann–Wagner Numerical (KWN) model was applied to successfully predict the overall precipitation behaviour, highlighting that the competing effects of deformation-induced vacancies enhancing diffusivity and the reduction of supersaturation due to precipitate growth are of primary importance, while the potential influence of strain path in monotonic deformation is of secondary significance.
[84] 赵燕茹,陈强,王磊 ,等.高温后混凝土单轴拉伸和压缩破坏规律及力学性能研究[J].硅酸盐通报,2024,43 (7):2451-2460,《硅酸盐通报》编辑部
摘要：本文对常温及高温作用后的混凝土进行单轴拉伸和压缩试验,同时使用数字图像相关方法(DIC)观测混凝土试件表面的变形演化过程,探究高温后混凝土拉伸和压缩过程中裂缝的变形演化及力学性能衰减规律。结果表明,随着温度升高,混凝土表面裂缝的萌生和扩展时间逐渐提前,破坏时表面应变集中区的宽度及相应的应变数值逐渐增大,裂缝扩展程度更加显著,当温度达到800℃时,甚至呈多裂缝扩展形态。裂缝的显著扩展增加了混凝土的耗能,使高温损伤后混凝土的延性增加。比较高温后混凝土拉伸和压缩应变云图可知,裂缝开裂引起的应变集中区宽度相近,但压缩试件的应变数值略高于拉伸试件。裂缝的萌生和扩展影响混凝土的力学性能,随着温度升高,混凝土抗拉强度、抗压强度及弹性模量不断下降,峰值应力处的应变逐渐增加;拉伸应力应变曲线由双阶段逐渐转变为三阶段,破坏特征由脆性转变为延性;而压缩应力应变曲线始终为三阶段,与单轴拉伸相比,压缩破坏的延性特征更加明显。
[85] Zhiyu Han,Peiliang Cong .Mechanisms for mechanical responses of asphalt under uniaxial tension with computational simulation[J].Construction and Building Materials,2023,385 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Mechanical mechanisms of asphalt responding to the uniaxial tension were investigated utilizing molecular dynamics simulations and quantum mechanics calculations. The simulated mechanical responses of asphalt coincide with the experimental trends. Fundamentally, the evolution of intermolecular interaction dominates the mechanical response of asphalt, where temperatures set the initial condition and strain rates primarily affect the reduction resistance. Moreover, the energy escaping from a three-dimensional potential well, during the relative movement between molecules, can be used to describe the intermolecular interaction reduction tendency. Temperatures limit the reduction magnitude by adjusting intermolecular distances, then strain rates change the escaping time-consumption and pathways. However, the entire escaping procedure is influenced by the accumulation of molecular reorientations. Consequently, a condensed alignment of asphalt polar components indicates enhancements of mechanical performance. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[86] Wang, Zhuolin .Mechanical properties of carbon steel under uniaxial static tension[M].Journal of Physics: Conference Series,2023,2535 (1),Institute of Physics
摘要：With the continuous development of science and technology, carbon steel is widely used in production and life. Especially at the practical application level, in the engineering application, the analysis of the mechanical properties of carbon steel materials has become increasingly prominent. The tensile test is a mechanical property test in which a standard tensile specimen is pulled to fracture at a specified tensile speed under the continuous action of static axial tensile force. The force and elongation are continuously recorded during the tensile process so as to obtain its strength criterion and plasticity criterion. In this paper, the characteristics of mechanical properties of the high, medium, and low carbon steels under uniaxial static tension are discussed. The reasons for the different mechanical properties of steels with different carbon content are explained from a microscopic perspective. The study provides some basic assistance to those who need relevant information. © Published under licence by IOP Publishing Ltd.
[87] 孙宇阳,张梅,顾裕卿 ,等.单轴拉伸下中锰钢组织演变和力学行为的数值模拟[J].机械工程材料,2022,46 (2):81-87
摘要：基于试验得到的显微组织建立了7Mn钢的代表性体积单元(RVE)模型,采用ABAQUS软件对温轧和不同温度(600~630℃)退火后7Mn钢在单轴拉伸过程中的组织演变和应力、应变分布进行模拟,并与试验结果进行对比。结果表明:当残余奥氏体沿着拉伸方向分布时,更容易发生协同变形,从而缓解铁素体中的应变集中,使体系处于较高的应力状态;在600℃退火后残余奥氏体稳定性较高,均匀塑性变形结束时仅有部分残余奥氏体转变为马氏体,而630℃退火后拉伸时残余奥氏体大部分转变为马氏体,模拟得到残余奥氏体含量与试验结果相吻合,相对误差小于5%,验证了基于RVE模型模拟组织演变的准确性;在615,630℃退火后,模拟得到应力-应变曲线与试验结果吻合较好,相对误差小于5%,验证了基于RVE模型模拟单轴拉伸行为的准确性,但在600℃退火后,由于各相本构模型未考虑到细晶强化和固溶强化作用,导致模拟结果与试验结果存在较大偏差。
[88] Saxena, Ashish Kumar,Barnwal, Vivek Kumar,Yazar, K. U. ,等.Dynamic evolution of hard orientations and consequent ductility loss during uniaxial tension of Ti6Al4V alloy[J].Bulletin of Materials Science,2025,48 (2):1-7,INDIAN ACAD SCIENCES
摘要：This study was performed on a hot extruded titanium alloy (Ti6Al4V) of circular cross-section. The alloy was deformed at different temperatures and strain rates using the uniaxial tension test. Subsequently, a comprehensive microstructure analysis using an electron back-scattered diffraction technique was performed to investigate the microstructure of the alloy. The study revealed the formation of hard-orientated regions during deformation that adversely affected the ductility of the alloy. This study also highlights the reasons responsible for the evolution of hard orientations at different temperatures.
[89] Emeka H. Amalu,Balaji B. Mahesh Babu .Development of Stress Concentration Factor (KTG) Chart for Finite Length of Bar with Longitudinal Varying Circular Hole Position in Uniaxial Tension[M],2025,Springer, Cham
摘要：<p>Existing chart of gross stress concentration factor (K<sub>tg</sub>) has been adequate but the ever-increasing complexity in the design of steel structures is challenging its continued deployment in eccentric applications. This research develops new chart of K<sub>tg</sub> for eccentricity ratio e/c of 3 for several longitudinal hole positions in a finite length of flat bar in tension. Employing finite element analysis (FEA), analytical and experimental methods, the study investigates 60 design points. Test vehicles (TVs) are steel plates measuring 200 mm long, 40 mm wide (b), and 4 mm thick. ANSYS mechanical package is used to simulate the response of computer-aided-design models of the TVs to an applied uniaxial tensile load of 5.0 kN. Implementation of the developed K<sub>tg</sub> chart in computation of maximum stress in a flat plate with hole produces stress results which are circa 98.97% identical with that generated from FEA simulation. Specifically, at critical hole position of 0.15b measured from load point at bar end, developed chart application demonstrates improvements of circa 55.6 and 65.0% from stress values computed using existing charts of K<sub>tg</sub> and nominal stress concentration factor for centre hole in plate (K<sub>tn</sub>), respectively. Developed k<sub>tg</sub> chart adoption will deliver highly reliable steel product designs.</p>
[90] Vlad-Alexandru Silvestru .Experimental and simulation data for point-by-point wire arc additively manufactured carbon steel bars loaded in uniaxial tension[J].Data in Brief,2024,53 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Wire arc additive manufacturing is considered to allow a reduced material consumption for structural steel components by efficiently distributing the material only where necessary. Parts produced with this technology exhibit an irregular, imperfect geometry, which influences their structural behaviour. This paper describes a dataset, which includes geometry information for point-by-point wire arc additively manufactured steel bars, force and displacement measurements from performed uniaxial tensile tests on such bars, and force and displacement values from geometrically and materially non-linear simulations of the bars with imperfect geometry. The geometry data was obtained by 3D scanning the steel bars. Moreover, a script is provided that allows processing the scanned geometry data such that it can be used to generate suitable finite element meshes for geometrically and materially non-linear analyses. The force and displacement data from the uniaxial tensile tests were collected through measurements with a load cell for the force and with the help of digital image correlation measurements for the displacements. The non-linear simulations of the experiments were conducted with the computer aided engineering software Abaqus on processed approximations of the irregular scanned geometry. The described dataset can be used for better understanding the influence of the irregular geometry on the structural behaviour of wire arc additively manufactured parts. Moreover, researchers can apply the data to validate finite element simulation models and approaches for predicting the structural behaviour of different wire arc additively manufactured parts.
[91] Man, Xiaolei,Jin, Depeng,Liu, Xueli ,等.Effect of Uniaxial Tension on the Permeability of Geotextile-Sand System under Different Water Flow Conditions[J].Processes,2024,12 (9),MDPI
摘要：To investigate the influence of uniaxial tension on the permeation characteristics of the Geotextile-sand system under different water flows, a self-developed multifunctional gradient ratio permeameter was used to conduct relevant permeation tests on three commonly used geotextiles in engineering. The study, respectively, explores the variations in seepage velocity and gradient ratio of the Geotextile-sand system under different uniaxial tension strains with unidirectional water flow and reciprocating water flow, as well as the effects of different water flows on the system under the same uniaxial tension strain. The test results indicate that the trends of gradient ratio and seepage velocity in geotextiles are consistent under different water flows;however, the gradient ratio under reciprocating flow is smaller, while the seepage velocity is greater compared to unidirectional flow.
[92] .沥青混合料.热混沥青的试验方法.利用单轴拉伸试验测定低温破裂缝隙和特性[S],2012
摘要：This European Standard specifies uniaxial tension tests for characterising the resistance of an asphalt mixture against low temperature cracking. The results of the uniaxial tension tests can be used to evaluate the following: ? tensile strength in dependence of the temperature, using the uniaxial tension stress test (UTST); ? minimum temperature that the asphalt can resist before failure, using the thermal stress restrained specimen test (TSRST); ? tensile strength reserve in dependence of the temperature (using a combination of TSRST and UTST); ? relaxation time, using the relaxation test (RT); ? creep curve to back calculate rheological parameters, using the tensile creep tests (TCT); ? fatigue resistance at low temperatures due to the combination of cryogenic and mechanical loads, using the uniaxial cyclic tension stress tests (UCTST).
[93] Li, Gui,Fang, Xuebin,Zhang, Ziqi ,等.Fracture damage evolution of 7075 ultra-high strength aluminum alloy under uniaxial tension with complex loading paths[J].International Journal of Damage Mechanics,2026,SAGE PUBLICATIONS LTD
摘要：7075 ultra-high strength aluminum alloy is widely applied in aerospace and automotive fields, but its nonlinear complex loading paths during forming intricate damage and fracture mechanisms. A critical gap exists in prior research: the alloy's path-dependent mechanical behavior and damage evolution under multiaxial loading are insufficiently characterized, limiting damage prediction accuracy and forming process optimization. This study addresses this gap by investigating the effects of deformation magnitude and strain rate on the mechanical properties and damage evolution of 7075 aluminum alloy sheets under stamping-tension complex strain paths. The fundamental advancement is the establishment of a high-precision path-dependent damage prediction framework based on the GTN model, which overcomes the limitation that traditional GTN-based applications fail to account for complex strain path effects. To develop this framework, a novel multiaxial loading device was designed for programmable strain paths;response surface experiments combined with finite element inverse calibration were used to optimize GTN parameters, and ABAQUS simulations were validated with experimental data. Results indicate that deformation magnitude dominates damage evolution by enhancing yield strength via cumulative work hardening and delaying damage progression, while strain rate only modulates mechanical strength without altering plastic damage modes. The proposed GTN-based framework effectively captures path-dependent damage progression under complex loading with accuracy over 92%, clarifying the regulatory mechanism of strain path dependence on mechanical degradation and fracture behavior. This work provides a robust theoretical and experimental basis for ultra-high strength alloy damage prediction, enabling precise optimization of practical forming and improved component reliability.
[94] Koorosh Delavari,Taejoon Park,Myoung-Gyu Lee ,等.Finite Element Analysis of Mathematically Generated Model of Rib 1 × 1 Weft-Knitted Fabric Under Uniaxial Tension[J].Polymer Composites,2026,47 (9):8351-8369,John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
摘要：Different fiber-reinforcement structures in composites cause varied mechanical responses by affecting how stress is distributed throughout the sample under various loading conditions. Dry weft-knitted fabric, characterized by its high stretch rate, exhibits different behaviors when used as a standalone fabric compared to when it is used as reinforcement in composites. The high-rate elongation property of weft-knitted fabric arises from the yarns' interaction and the loops' geometry within the fabric, not from the material used. This study examines the tensile behavior of dry weft-knitted fabrics, intended to serve as reinforcement structures in composite materials. To analyze the impact of this structure, a mathematical model representing the 3D geometry of a Rib 1 × 1 weft-knitted fabric was developed. The fabric geometry was modeled using Python scripting of the mathematical equations within the ABAQUS FE software for analyzing the modeled geometries. An experimental tensile test was conducted on a commercial Rib 1 × 1 weft-knitted fabric in both the longitudinal and transverse directions. The fabric exhibited average elongations at break of 262% and 71%, and average maximum tensile forces of 132.8 and 395.6 N in the transverse and longitudinal directions, respectively. Remarkably, the mechanical response and deformation patterns of the numerical and experimental samples closely matched in these tests. Using mathematical models to recreate the complex geometries of these reinforcements in the dry fabric facilitated the accurate prediction of their mechanical responses using numerical analysis. These models are ideally suited for efficiently generating data to train machine learning and artificial intelligence models in the future. Adaptable mathematical equations for Rib 1 × 1 weft-knitted fabric geometry. Python-based model easily adjusted for varying Rib 1 × 1 fabric parameters. Validated model by weight and tensile tests vs. numerical simulation results. Accura
[95] Quan Wen,Sixiong Zeng,Huan Sheng Lai ,等.Study on the circumferential tensile properties of Zr-4 alloy cladding tubes using single-stress small punch test[J].International Journal of Pressure Vessels and Piping,2026,222 (P1),Elsevier Science
摘要：Zr-4 alloy cladding tubes are predominantly applied in light water reactors (LWR). However, investigating their circumferential tensile properties is challenging due to the small dimensions of the cladding tubes. In this study, the circumferential tensile properties of Zr-4 alloy cladding tubes were investigated using a single-stress small punch test (SS-SPT). The anisotropic tensile properties were first examined through axial tension tests (ATTs) and ring hoop tension tests (RHTTs). Subsequently, SS-SPTs were used to investigate the circumferential tensile properties of cladding tubes at room temperature, 350 °C, 550 °C, and 750 °C. Experimental results indicated that the fracture behavior of both RHTT and SS-SPT specimens was identical. The circumferential ultimate tensile stress could be accurately determined using SS-SPTs. The length and the hole radius of the specimen could be reduced to 8.0 mm and 0.7 mm, respectively. Simulation results indicated that machining errors within 0.05 mm in the punch radius or specimen dimensions (hole radius, initial thickness, and punch region width) exerted negligible impact on SS-SPT accuracy.
[96] Sainov, M.P. .Comparison of Strength and Deformation of Geomembranes at Uniaxial and Biaxial Tension[M].AIP Conference Proceedings,2023,2791 (1),American Institute of Physics Inc.
摘要：Geomembrane used as a seepage control facility of an embankment dam operates in conditions of complicated stress state. They do not correspond to conditions of the standard methodology of uniaxial tensile tests. It may be also a case when a geomembrane is in conditions of biaxial tension. In order to estimate the effect of the type of stress state on strength and deformation of geomembranes we performed the tests of two types of geomembranes (made of PVC and HDPE). They were conducted according to «Burst test» pattern, when extension of the geomembrane specimen is reached due to pressure applied on its surface. The obtained results were compared with the results of experiments fulfilled by the other authors. First of all, there were compared the results of studies fulfilled in China. During these studies the geomembrane specimens were tested directly at biaxial tension («Biaxial test»). Comparison showed a good agreement of the results of geomembrane tests performed by the patterns «Burst test» and «Biaxial test». At biaxial tension the yield stress of HDPE geomembranes is approximately 16 МPа, and of those made of PVC it is approximately 6.5 МPа. It is, as a rule, 20÷40% more than at uniaxial tension. However, it should be taken into account that at biaxial tension the geomembrane modulus of linear deformation also increases. At the initial section of tensioning the geomembrane modulus of linear deformation at biaxial tension is approximately 3 times as much as during the standard methodology of uniaxial tensile tests. Thus, the type of stress state has variable effect on strength and deformation of geomembranes;its effect may be ambiguous. Therefore, at analysis of spatial stress-strain state of a dam with a geomembrane it is not correct to use the results of standard uniaxial tensile tests. © 2023 American Institute of Physics Inc.. All rights reserved.
[97] Yajiang Guo,Danying Gao,Wei Ma ,等.Acoustic emission characteristics and constitutive model of steel fiber and steel ball reinforced UHPC under uniaxial tension[J].Journal of Building Engineering,2025,106 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Steel fiber and steel ball reinforced Ultra-High-Performance Concrete (SFBUHPC) is well-known for its impact resistance, while its tensile performance has not been studied systematically. In this study, the tensile performance of SFBUHPC was investigated using dog-bone specimens. The tests were conducted under displacement control with a loading rate of 0.001 mm/s, and the tensile process was monitored through acoustic emission (AE) technology. The results indicated that steel fibers obviously improved the brittleness of SFBUHPC, with the maximum uniaxial tensile peak stress reaching 6.9 MPa at a steel fiber volume fraction of 6 %. The tensile stress-strain curve of SFBUHPC showed a sudden drop after the specimen reached the tensile peak stress due to the incorporation of steel balls. However, this sudden drop phenomenon was alleviated as the steel fiber volume fraction increased from 1 % to 6 %, with the magnitude of the stress drop reducing from 38.1 % to 17.4 %. Based on the peak frequency of AE, AE sources were classified, enabling a more precise identification of internal damage mechanisms. Finally, the damage factor was defined using AE accumulative counting based on the damage theory and was utilized to develop a novel constitutive model capable of effectively capturing the stress-strain curve characteristics. This study provides a comprehensive understanding of the tensile behavior of SFBUHPC and offers valuable insights for its engineering applications and further development.
[98] Fadhel, Ali. M.,Ma, Tianshou,Wang, Haonan .Experimental Investigation on the Tensile Mechanical Behavior of Layered Shale Using Direct and Indirect Test Methods[J].Applied Sciences,2025,15 (5),MDPI
摘要：An accurate understanding of the tensile mechanical behavior of shale rock is essential for optimizing shale gas drilling and hydraulic fracturing operations. However, the mechanical behavior of shale is significantly influenced by its anisotropy. Therefore, this study investigated the tensile mechanical behavior of layered shale by combining acoustic emission (AE) monitoring with two testing methods: the Brazilian splitting test (BST) and a novel direct tensile test (DTT). The impact of anisotropy on the tensile mechanical behavior and failure modes of layered shale under different test methods was evaluated. Additionally, seven anisotropic tensile strength criteria were compared and validated using the experimental results. The results show that: (1) As the loading angle (beta) increased, the tensile strength measured by both BST and DTT increased. Both methods exhibited maximum tensile strength at beta = 90 degrees and minimum tensile strength at beta = 0 degrees. The anisotropy ratios for BST and DTT were 1.52 and 2.36, respectively, indicating the significant influence of the loading angle on tensile strength. (2) The AE results indicated that both DTT and BST specimens exhibited brittle failure characteristics. However, the DTT specimens demonstrated more pronounced progressive failure behavior, with failure modes categorized into four types: tensile failure across the bedding plane, shear failure along the bedding plane, and two types of tensile-shear mixed failure. In contrast, the BST specimens primarily exhibited tensile-shear mixed failure, except for tensile failure along the bedding plane at beta = 0 degrees and tensile failure across the bedding plane at beta = 90 degrees. (3) Neither of the two test methods could fully eliminate the influence of anisotropy, but three anisotropic tensile criteria, the Lee-Pietruszczak criterion, the critical plane approach criterion, and the anisotropic mode I fracture toughness criterion based on the stress-strain tra
[99] Gomez, Rafael,Whisler, Daniel .Improving Uniaxial Dynamic Tension Testing of Composite Specimens[M],2023,DEStech Publications
摘要：Validation of composite specimens on the order of a few millimeters in length in tension can be examined dynamically via uniaxial test rigs and split Hopkinson pressure bars. For compression testing, hydraulic/gravity drop towers and the Hopkinson bar are permissible for larger specimens (on the order of centimeters in length) and up to 1,000 1/s. Uniaxial tension test methods for composite specimens enabling both configurations, i.e., several centimeters in length and at strain rates up to 1,000 1/s, is much more limited. The goal of this research investigation is to test precisely in this regime by optimizing the composite coupon specimen for dynamic material characterization. For this project, a tension setup using a single Hopkins on bar was adapted to enable up to 6 cm long specimens tested at the requisite strain rates. Coupon specimens were then optimized using machine learning to promote stress in the gage region thereby minimizing testing failures if the specimen were to break near the grips. Using these two systems, we may have a proof of concept for high strain rate tension testing of composites that is optimized for validation studies using machine learning based geometries. © 2023 by DEStech Publications, Inc. and American Society for Composites. All rights reserved.
[100] Kumar, Parveen,Srijan, Srijan,Aggarwal, Vanita ,等.The unique modified seesaw test (MST) instrument for the direct assessment of rock's tensile strength utilizing ring-shaped specimens[J].Sādhanā,2025,50 (3):1-13,SPRINGER INDIA
摘要：This study introduces the Modified Seesaw Test (MST), an innovative method for determining tensile strength in ring-shaped rock specimens by applying diametral tensile forces from the inner diameter outward. Utilizing finite element analysis in ANSYS Workbench 2021, tensile stress values and shape factors were calculated across various diameter ratios for both MST and Indirect Ring (IR) tests. The analysis demonstrated a decrease in failure load with increasing inner diameter, with tensile strengths from the Brazilian Disc (BD) test surpassing those from the IR and MST methods by 15% and 23%, respectively. Fracture pattern analysis revealed more linear fractures in MST specimens due to perpendicular loading, compared to the multi-line fractures in IR specimens caused by combined stresses. Despite these variations, MST and IR methods proved reliable, offering viable alternatives to the BD test, particularly for low-capacity testing setups. This research underscores the critical role of specimen geometry and loading configuration in tensile strength measurements, providing valuable insights for advancing tensile testing methodologies in rock mechanics.
[101] Boz, Ilker,Seitllari, Aksel,Habbouche, Jhony ,等.Assessing the Impact of Test Conditions on Indirect Tensile Test Results for Evaluating Rutting Potential in Asphalt Mixtures[J].TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH RECORD,2026,2680 (2):891-902,SAGE PUBLICATIONS INC
摘要：This study investigates how variations in testing procedures and conditions of the indirect tensile at high temperature (IDT-HT) test affect the assessment of rutting potential in asphalt mixtures. Specifically, it explores the effects of specimen conditioning environments, loading rates, device types, and storage (lag and dwell times) on the IDT-HT test results. Four dense-graded asphalt mixtures with varying rutting potentials were evaluated. The results indicated significant differences in specimen conditioning times between water bath and environmental chamber, with water bath-conditioned specimens consistently showing lower strength values. Additionally, the repeatability characteristics of the test were not significantly affected by conditioning environment, loading rate, loading frame, or storage. Furthermore, loading rate (50 +/- 4 mm/min), loading frame, or storage did not significantly affect the test results, particularly in the context of single-operator precision estimates. A preliminary performance criterion was established for the IDT-HT test, requiring a minimum strength value of 100 kPa for specimens conditioned in a water bath at 54.4 degrees C for 1 h.
[102] Zhu, Jiahao,Yu, Wenchao,Yan, Yongming ,等.Determination of Crack Initiation in Ultrahigh Strength Martensitic Steel by Interrupted Tensile Test[J].steel research international,2026,WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：The study investigated crack initiation in ultrahigh strength martensitic steel (1926 MPa tensile strength, >13% elongation) using interrupted tensile tests and hydrogen charging. The steel's ultrafine microstructure (5 mu m prior austenite grains, 1.3 mu m martensite blocks) enabled simultaneous high strength and ductility. Fracture transitioned from microvoid coalescence to localized quasicleavage after hydrogen charged. Crack initiation occurred at 10.3%-11.8% engineering strain, corresponding to true strains of 0.42-0.54 in necking regions by simulation. High-density boundaries effectively inhibited crack propagation during damage evolution, contributing to exceptional nonuniform elongation.
[103] 龙津润,赵炳震,陈红鸟 ,等.基于ESPI技术的混凝土单轴拉伸断裂特性研究[J].硅酸盐通报,2022,41 (12):4263-4272,《硅酸盐通报》编辑部
摘要：为了研究混凝土的拉伸断裂特性,对带有预制切口的C80高强混凝土棱柱体进行单轴拉伸试验,采用电子散斑干涉(ESPI)技术测量棱柱体表面的场位移等信息,分析加载过程得到混凝土的断裂参数以及断裂特性等。为进行对比分析,本次试验还采用线性位移计和夹式位移计测量试件的变形程度。对比结果表明ESPI技术的测量结果与夹式位移计结果吻合较好,证实了ESPI技术用于测量混凝土表面位移场的精确性和可行性。分析得到:初裂点应力约为峰值应力的82%;峰值下裂缝口张开位移(CMOD)为11μm,结合公式得到混凝土在单轴拉伸下的断裂韧度约为0.41 MPa·m^(1/2),断裂能约为24.71 N/m;利用两种拟合公式对试验应力-应变关系进行拟合,得到了较好的拟合结果。最后,通过不同加载步骤下ESPI技术测得的位移云图分析裂缝口张开位移随试件宽度的变化规律,得到了单轴拉伸下的裂纹扩展规律。
[104] 钟金豹,李磊 .单轴拉伸下YSZ纳米柱变形机制及力学性能的分子动力学研究[J].中国陶瓷,2024,60 (9):37-43
摘要：采用分子动力学方法,研究了单晶氧化钇稳定四方氧化锆(YSZ)纳米柱在单轴拉伸下的变形机制。模拟结果表明,YSZ的纳米塑性变形强烈依赖于氧化锆纳米柱的晶体取向,[001]晶向的YSZ纳米柱在拉伸载荷下可以观察到四方相向单斜相相变的结果。在低应变速率状态下,低应变速率不会影响YSZ纳米柱的力学性能,包括杨氏模量、强度和屈服应变,以及主要的变形机制。此外,以四方到单斜相变为主的YSZ纳米柱对力学性能有很强的尺寸效应,YSZ的强度随纳米柱尺寸的减小而降低。
[105] Movva, Sahitya,Burrell, Reeshemah K.,Garmestani, Hamid ,等.Wear Resistance and Microstructure of Ultra High Molecular Weight Polyethylene During Uniaxial Tension[J].Tribology Letters,2024,72 (1):1-13,SPRINGER/PLENUM PUBLISHERS
摘要：The influence of microstructure on wear resistance of prosthetic hip and joint bioimplant material, ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) during uniaxial tension has been investigated. The microstructure and wear resistance have been studied utilizing wide-angle X-ray diffraction and nanoscratch tester, respectively. The microstructure has been represented in terms of texture components resultant from orientation distribution functions (ODFs) and pole figures while wear resistance has been represented in terms of wear volume and wear resistance factor. This study investigates how the global combination of texture components prevalent in different plastic regimes engenders material responses to wear resistance. The effect of abrasion and change in wear resistance of the bioimplant material UHMWPE have been explored by varying the loads applied, scratch directions, scratch speeds and the number of recurring scratches within the nanoscratch tests. The wear resistance developed during the uniaxial tension has been correlated to the microstructural changes resulting due to mechanical deformation. This study of the correlation between wear resistance and texture suggests that improved wear resistance in UHMWPE can be achieved by texturing the bioimplant material in the loading direction.
[106] 董志芳,邓明科,王波 ,等.应变率与短纤维掺量对TR-HDC单轴拉伸力学性能影响试验研究[J].工程力学,2024,41 (7):202-211
摘要：为研究纤维织物增强高延性混凝土(TR-HDC)在不同应变率和短纤维掺量下的单轴拉伸力学性能,该文设计了25组TR-HDC薄板试件进行单轴拉伸试验,研究应变率(10^(−5) s^(−1)~10^(−1) s^(−1))和短纤维掺量(0%~2%)对TR-HDC开裂模式、破坏机理和抗拉强度的影响。结果表明:TR-HDC在单轴拉伸荷载作用下具有多缝开裂特征,随应变率的增大,试件裂缝间距略有增大趋势,同时短纤维掺量越高,多缝开裂模式越稳定;应变率和短纤维掺量增加可显著改善界面性能,抑制纤维织物的滑移失效;随应变率的提升,TR-HDC的力学性能呈现出一定的应变率敏感性,同时增加短纤维掺量,其开裂和峰值强度也呈现出显著的增长趋势。基于线性对数关系和多因素耦合提出的预测模型可统一TR-HDC静态与动态抗拉强度计算方法,为其工程应用提供了理论依据。
[107] Hussein, M.,Mathieu, D.,L'hostis, G. ,等.Monitoring of Thermal and Deformation Fields of a Textile Subjected to Modulated Quasi-Static Tensile Test Using a Thermal Camera[J].Experimental Mechanics,2026,66 (2):363-380,SPRINGER
摘要：BackgroundThe mechanical behavior of textiles is highly dependent on their anisotropic and viscoelastic nature, necessitating advanced characterization techniques to capture both thermal and mechanical responses accurately. Conventional tensile tests often fail to provide sufficient insights into textiles' dynamic and heterogeneous behavior, particularly regarding dynamic stiffness evolution, energy dissipation, and structural *** study investigates the use of thermal imaging combined with digital image correlation (DIC) to measure displacement fields and deformation, thereby enabling a more comprehensive assessment of textile mechanics under modulated quasi-static tensile *** textile specimen was subjected to a modulated quasi-static tensile test, where cyclic loading was superimposed on a quasi-static tensile strain. Infrared thermography was employed to monitor displacement fields and temperature variations, enabling the statistical analysis of deformation homogeneity, local stress evolution, and heat source localization. The complex modulus was analyzed to evaluate the fabric's viscoelastic *** proposed methodology successfully quantified displacement fields and revealed significant heterogeneities in textile deformation, especially between the warp and weft directions. The addition of modulation highlighted the fabric's viscoelastic properties, with a notable increase in dynamic stiffness beyond 45% strain. DIC analysis directly on thermal images simplified data processing, enabling the identification of heat sources in terms of amplitude and location. This approach also facilitated the quantification of structural *** study demonstrates that thermal imaging can effectively capture both deformation and thermal fields, providing a robust method for textile characterization. Integrating a modulated quasi-static tensile test with thermal analysis enhances the understanding of textile mech
[108] Rongcheng Wang,Huan Sheng Lai,Sixiong Zeng ,等.A modified small punch test to investigate tensile properties[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,136 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Determination of tensile properties is essential for the design and strength assessment of structures. In this study, a modified small punch test (SPT), known as the single-stress small punch test (SS-SPT), was proposed to investigate the tensile properties of five ductile homogeneous materials, namely P91, Q245R, 316SS, 1045 steel, and 2024Al. The SS-SPT specimen was subjected to a single stress state when subjected to a punch force, similar to that of a uniaxial tensile test (UTT) specimen. Additionally, UTT and standard SPT were carried out to investigate the tensile properties of these materials. The thickness of failed standard SPT and SS-SPT specimens was measured using a scanning electron microscope (SEM) and the equivalent fracture strain was calculated. Correlation relationships between each type of SPT and UTT results were established. Experimental results indicated that both the SS-SPT and standard SPT demonstrated comparable accuracy in determining yield stress, ultimate tensile stress, and tensile elongation. However, the SS-SPT exhibited greater accuracy than the standard SPT in determining fracture strain due to direct measurement of the thinnest thickness from the fracture in failed SS-SPT specimens.
[109] Sun, Junqi,Wang, Yuting,Chen, Meng ,等.Experimental and Numerical Analysis of the Dynamic Tensile Response at the Interface Between Rock and High Performance Supported Material Based on Spalling Test[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2026,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：Steel fiber-reinforced concrete (SFRC) is a high-performance lining support material, and the effective bonding between the SFRC and the rock is critical to the structural stability. This study employs a spalling test to investigate the mechanical properties and stress wave propagation mechanisms at the interface of rock-SFRC bimaterials. Bimaterial specimens were prepared for different rock types (hard/soft) and joint roughness coefficient (JRC = 4, 12, 20). Results indicate that the interfacial dynamic tensile strength of bimaterials exhibited a noticeable strain rate effect. When the impact velocity increased from 2.30-2.42 to 4.25-4.42 m/s, the strength was enhanced by 139-203%. The increasing JRC induced tensile stress concentration, resulting in reduced dynamic tensile strength, dynamic increase factor (DIF), and fracture energy at the bimaterial interface. The high toughness and porous properties of soft rock result in its bimaterial tensile strength exceeding that of hard rock. Based on experimental results, a unified dimensionless formula was established that quantitatively correlated DIF with impact velocity and JRC. Numerical simulations quantified the influence of size effect and stress wave peak intensity on interfacial dynamic tensile properties of bimaterials. The stress wave transmission time and accumulated energy in the SFRC were enlarged with increasing bimaterial thickness, resulting in a higher spalling velocity. Based on stress wave patterns in rock, interface, and SFRC, the fitting equations were established to predict the stress distribution within the bimaterials. Combining stress wave propagation and damage mechanics theory, the deformation of bimaterials was classified into elastic and damaged states.
[110] Xue, Gang,Liu, Yi,Mou, Yifei .Analysis of Influencing Factors of Stress-Strain Curve of Three-dimensional Mesoscopic Concrete Under Uniaxial Tension and Compression Load[J].材料导报,2025,39 (15),Cailiao Daobaoshe/ Materials Review
摘要：Aspatial random convex polyhedron coarse aggregate model was established based on the traditional aggregate generation method,meanwhile,a solid interface transition zone with adjustable thickness was established. The mechanical behavior of three-dimensional mesoscopic concrete under quasi-static uniaxial compression and uniaxial tension was analyzed by finite element method. The simulation results of stress-strain relationship and damage failure mode were compared with the experimental results,which verifies the reliability of the three-dimensional mesoscopic finite element model. Then the influence of aggregate distribution,aggregate geometric change and interface transition zone thickness on the failure mode and stress-strain relationship of concrete were analyzed. The results showed that aggregate distribution has little effect on uniaxial compression damage,but had great influence on uniaxial tensile damage and stress-strain curve under uniaxial tension and compression load. With the increase of aggregate roughness,the damage area increased and the peak stress increased gradually under uniaxial compression. The damage and peak stress were less affected by uniaxial tension,and there was no obvious change rule. With the increase of the thickness of the interfacial transition zone,the peak stress of uniaxial tension and uniaxial compression decreased gradually. © 2025 Cailiao Daobaoshe/ Materials Review. All rights reserved.
[111] Povolotskaya, A. M.,Mushnikov, A. N. .Magnetic Properties of the Plastically Pre-Deformed 08Kh15N5D2T Maraging Steel Under Subsequent Elastic Uniaxial Tension[J].Russian Physics Journal,2024,66 (11):1226-1233,SPRINGER
摘要：The paper presents results of studying the effect of preliminary plastic tensile deformation to different strains on the magnetic behavior of the 08Kh15N5D2T maraging steel during subsequent elastic uniaxial tension. It is shown that the magnetostriction of the plastically pre-deformed maraging steel, in contrast to lower-alloy ferritic steels, demonstrates only positive values in the entire range of tensile stresses. This causes unique stress dependences of the magnetic hysteresis parameters.
[112] Sommer, Jan,Müller, Martina,Herrig, Tim ,等.Simulative and Empirical Investigation of Test Specimen Geometries for the Determination of Forming Limit States in the Tensile-Compression Range for Austenitic Stainless Steel Foil Material[M].Lecture Notes in Mechanical Engineering,2024,Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH
摘要：In bipolar plate production, extreme thin foil materials are becoming increasingly important due to the trend towards high-energy dense fuel cells. For a better of the material behavior and component failures, finite element simulations are used. In order to achieve an expressive numerical representation of the forming process, the behavior of material failure in sheet metal forming is described by forming limit curves (FLC). However, especially for thin metal foils, proven testing methods such as the Nakazima test are not applicable because the specimens start wrinkling or fail outside the defect zone specified in the norm. While there are alternative testing methods for the detection of the pure tension area of the FLC, there is no applicable testing method for the evaluation of the forming limit in the tensile-compression zone. Therefore, in this paper simulations as well as physical tests were carried out to define a suitable specimen geometry for the characterization of stainless steel foil (1.4404) with a thickness of 0.1 mm using a scaled Nakazima set up. The simulation results showed that by decreasing the parallel web length as well as the fillet radius the equivalent strain maximum is shifted towards the specimen center. This observation is supported by the physical tests where necking occurred in the specimen center. Additionally to the position of failure, first investigations in physical testing showed maximum strain ratios of Ε 1 = 0.23 in major strain and Ε 2 = −0.095 in minor strain. The strain ratio therefore represents the uniaxial tension area. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2024.
[113] Sanei, Manouchehr,Marji, Mohammad Fatehi,Yusufi, Dinmohammad ,等.Investigating the effects of loading rate and mixing design on concrete's direct tensile strength using the CTLC test[J].Analytical and Numerical Methods in Mining Engineering,2026,15 (45):63-74,Yazd University
摘要：The tensile strength of concrete is measured using direct tensile tests on rectangular concrete samples with dimensions of 19 cm in length, 16 cm in width, and 6 cm in thickness, with a central hole of 9 cm in diameter. The concrete specimens were prepared in the laboratory by mixing cement, fine sand, gravel, and water in appropriate proportions. Calibration of the new direct tensile strength test apparatus was carried out to determine the tensile strength of different brittle materials (gypsum and concrete) under various loading rates and different mixing design types. The direct tensile strength tests were accomplished by a compressive-to-tensile load converter (CTLC) fitted with the specimens and placed in the universal testing machine in the laboratory. For the indirect Brazilian tensile strength tests, loading rates of 5, 10, and 15 kg/s were considered. For the direct tensile strength tests, loading rates of 2, 2.5, and 3 mm/min were used. The results of this paper show that the direct tensile strengths measured by the CTLC apparatus are approximately 25% lower than those measured by the Brazilian tests. The average tensile strengths of the geo-material samples increase as both the loading rate and the ratio of fine sand to gravel increase.
[114] 李远飞,王海东,许怡幸 ,等.基于标准拉伸和小冲杆试验的中子辐照国产A508-3钢硬化研究[J].核动力工程,2025,46 (6):133-138
摘要：反应堆压力容器(RPV)辐照监督试样不足的问题日益凸显,小冲杆试验作为一种高效获取数据的手段被认为可以克服这一问题。本文针对国产RPV钢(A508-3钢)开展了3×10^(19)cm^(-2)和6×10^(19)cm^(-2)(中子能量E≥1 MeV)两个不同快中子注量的辐照考验,并进行了辐照后室温条件下的拉伸性能和小冲杆测试。数据显示,标准拉伸强度和小冲杆强度特征值均随快中子注量而升高。此外,根据半经验公式建立了标准拉伸强度和小冲杆强度特征值的线性关系。
[115] Kasahara, Hisatoshi,Shimomura, Takumi,Minami, Kaito ,等.Study of Test Method for Direct Tensile Strength of Polymer Concrete[J].Journal of the Society of Materials Science, Japan,2025,74 (3):167-172,Society of Materials Science Japan
摘要：A direct tensile strength test was developed to determine the tensile strength and tensile stress-strain relationship of polymer concrete. Referring to previous studies of direct tensile tests on cement concrete, the test method was developed by focusing on the method of transmitting tensile force from the testing machine to the specimen and the shape of the specimen. As a method of transmitting tensile force, a cylindrical specimen was inserted into a cylindrical jig and fixed by tightening a nut on the tightening ring with a torque wrench. Secondary bending was reduced by placing spherical seats at both ends of all threaded rods in the cylindrical jig. The specimen shape was a dog-bone-shaped cylindrical with a narrower diameter at the test section. It was confirmed that the fracture zone could be guided into the test section and that strain could be measured well in the test section. The tensile strength of the polymer concrete measured by the developed direct tensile test method was almost consistent with the split tensile strength. © 2025 The Society of Materials Science, Japan.
[116] Agarwal, Ayush,Kukreja, Tejas,Kumar, Ankit ,等.Fractography analysis into heat treated Inconel 718 alloy after performing tensile test[J].Canadian Metallurgical Quarterly,2026,65 (2):1356-1370,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：Inconel 718 is known for its excellent mechanical properties and corrosion resistance. Along with high strength, it carries an ideal ductility. The present work analyses the fracture behaviour of Inconel 718 alloy after performing heat treatment processes. The heat treatment methods involve annealing + straight cooling into various media + aging. One sample was kept in 'as received' condition. The tensile test was performed to check the variation in the strength after heat treatment. The FESEM was used to observe the microstructure of the alloy at pre- and post-heat-treated conditions. For analysing the possible variation in elemental composition, EDS mapping was done in this work. The fractured zones of used tensile specimens were closely observed by using FESEM images. The dimples and intergranular fracture were identified by the high-resolution microscopic images. Also, the XRD results established the presence of Ni3Nb rich delta-phase throughout the fractured zone. Because of delta-phase, the heat-treated samples have shown high ductility until fracture during tensile test. L'inconel 718 est reconnu pour ses excellentes propri & eacute;t & eacute;s m & eacute;caniques et sa r & eacute;sistance & agrave;la corrosion. Outre sa r & eacute;sistance m & eacute;canique & eacute;lev & eacute;e, il pr & eacute;sente une ductilit & eacute;id & eacute;ale. Le travail courant analyse le comportement & agrave;la rupture de l'alliage inconel 718 apr & egrave;s traitement thermique. Les m & eacute;thodes de traitement thermique comprennent un recuit, un refroidissement direct dans divers milieux, et un vieillissement. On a conserv & eacute;un & eacute;chantillon 'tel que re & ccedil;u'. On a r & eacute;alis & eacute;un essai de traction pour v & eacute;rifier la variation de la r & eacute;sistance apr & egrave;s traitement thermique. On a utilis & eacute;le FESEM pour observer la microstructure de l'alliage avant et apr & egrave;s traitement thermique. Afin d'analyser les var
[117] Mohsen Eghbalian,Mohammad Javad Hashemi,Amirhossein Nikparsa ,等.Exploring mechanical properties of Net Y: A molecular dynamics examination on the impact of defect density and temperature gradients under uniaxial tension[J].Computational Materials Science,2025,258 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：After the synthetization of graphene, various carbon allotropes with remarkable applications have emerged in the material science. Net Y, closely related to Net C, is a novel carbon allotrope with exceptional properties. This study employs the molecular dynamics simulation to predict key mechanical characters of Net Y subjected to a uniaxial tension, including the failure strain as well as stress, Young’s modulus, and strain energy. A detailed tension distribution analysis is provided to explore its mechanical behavior further. The numerical results reveal that the defect density and temperature gradients significantly influence the mechanical performance of Net Y. The nanosheet exhibits over twice the failure stress and 1.5 times the failure strain along with the <em>X</em> direction than the initial failure stress and strain observed along with the <em>Y</em> direction. Also, it is demonstrated that the ultimate failure stress as well as strain along with the <em>Y</em> direction are more significant due to a substantial failure region in the associated stress–strain path. Furthermore, it is observed that the Young’s modulus declines consistently allocated to a higher defect density, decreasing by approximately 17 % via increasing the defect density from 0.5 % to 2 % along with the <em>X</em> direction. Moreover, the quantity of strain energy increases with the number of ribbons, reaching <span class="math"><math><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">1.58</mn><mo is="true">×</mo><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">10</mn></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo><mn is="true">26</mn></mrow></msup><mspace is="true" width="0.166667em"></mspace><mi is="true">e</mi><mi is="true">V</mi></mrow></math></span> and <span class="math"><math><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">3.99</mn><mo is="true">×</mo><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">10</mn></mrow><mrow is="true"><mo is="true">-</mo><mn is="true">26</mn></mrow></msup><mi is="true">e</mi><mi is="true">V</mi></mr
[118] Wu, Chengfeng,Jiang, Ming,Lu, Yingying ,等.Experimental and Numerical Investigation into the Mechanical Behavior of Composite Solid Propellants Subject to Uniaxial Tension[J].Materials,2023,16 (20):6695,MDPI
摘要：To further explore the quasi-static mechanical characteristics of composite solid propellants at low strain rates, an investigation was conducted on the mechanical behavior and damage mechanisms of a four-component hydroxy-terminated polybutadiene (HTPB) propellant by means of experiments and numerical simulation. A uniaxial tensile test and scanning electron microscope (SEM) characterization experiment were carried out. A microstructural model, which accurately represents the mesoscopic structure, was developed via the integration of micro-CT scanning and image-processing techniques. The constructed microstructural model was utilized to conduct a numerical simulation of the mechanical behavior. The experimental results demonstrated that the maximum tensile strength increases with increasing strain rate, and the primary cause of propellant failure at low strain rates is the dewetting phenomenon occurring at the interface between the larger particles and the matrix. The maximum tensile strength is 0.48 MPa when the strain rate is 0.00119 s-1, and the maximum tensile strength is 0.37 MPa when the strain rate is 0.000119 s-1. The simulation results indicated a consistent trend in variation when comparing the simulation and experimental curves. This suggested that the established model exhibits a high level of reliability, and provides a promising approach for carrying out microstructural simulations of heterogeneous propellants in future. The mechanical behavior of the propellant can be effectively described by utilizing a mesoscopic finite element model that incorporates the superelastic constitutive model of the matrix and the bilinear cohesive model. This framework facilitates the representation of mesoscopic damage evolution, which consequently provides insights into the damage mechanism. Additionally, the utilization of such models assists in compensating for the limitations of damage evolution characterization experiments.
[119] Yuanyuan Qiao,Taikun Hao,Xiaoying Liu ,等.Slip-twinning synergistic deformation mechanism in Cu/SAC305/Cu micro solder joints during in-situ tensile test[J].Journal of Materials Science & Technology,2026,259 :1-14,Elsevier Science
摘要：The slip-twinning synergistic deformation mechanism in Cu/SAC305/Cu micro solder joints during in-situ tensile test was systematically studied. The joints exhibited an ultimate tensile strength of 91–97 MPa, with fracture surfaces characterized by dimpled zones and fractured brittle intermetallic compounds (IMCs) grains, revealing a ductile-brittle mixed fracture mode strongly correlated with Sn grain orientation. The formation of subgrains and mechanical twins during tensile indicated that the plastic deformation was governed by the concurrent activation of dislocation slip and twinning. Subgrains formation originated from dislocations slipping along the dominant {100}&lt;001&gt;, {110}&lt;001&gt;, and {101}&lt;111&gt;/2 slip systems, as well as the rotation of Sn lattices constrained by the solder/Cu interfaces. Meanwhile, mechanical twins occurred via atomic deformation along the [−101] direction in the {101}&lt;101&gt; twin system. Specifically, one out of four atoms displayed along the slip direction, while the other three atoms rearranged to occupy new lattice positions, with subsequent crystal layers shifting to support mechanical twins formation. In general, under tensile conditions, geometrically necessary dislocations initially generated near grain boundaries, progressively accumulated at subgrain boundaries, and stored within grains, ultimately activated twinning to form mechanical twins upon subsequent dislocation blockage. And the results pointed out that Sn grain with small |∆<em>λ</em>| preferred to form subgrains by slip, while Sn grain with large |∆<em>λ</em>| would generate twin grains by twinning during tensile. Thus, a slip-twinning synergistic deformation mechanism was established, highlighting the synergistic effect of slip and twinning on the formation of subgrains and twins during the plastic deformation of solder joints under tensile conditions.
[120] Pei, Junjie,Zhao, Jinchang,Niu, Shaoqing .Shape Effect and Accuracy Analysis of Rock Tensile Strength Test[J].Applied Sciences,2025,15 (5),MDPI
摘要：Featured Application This paper reveals the influence of the size of disc specimens on the results of splitting tests and provides significant theoretical references for practical experiments. It proposes correlation coefficients for the tensile strength of specimens with different shapes and quantifies the correction method for actual tensile strength. The applicability of different specimen shapes is compared, highlighting the advantages of disc specimens in engineering *** To investigate the influence of shape effects on the tensile strength of rocks, splitting tests were conducted on disc specimens with the same thickness-to-diameter ratio but different diameters using physical similarity simulation and numerical simulation experiments. Additionally, finite element analysis software was employed to perform numerical simulation tests on two types of dumbbell-shaped specimens involved in direct tensile tests of rocks. This study revealed that when the thickness-to-diameter ratio is fixed at 0.5, the splitting tensile strength decreases gradually as the specimen diameter increases from 30 mm to 110 mm. This trend can be well fitted using a power function. The tensile strength measured from direct tensile tests on the two types of dumbbell-shaped specimens shows a slight decreasing trend as the diameter of the central effective test area decreases. Moreover, the measured tensile strength is lower than the actual tensile strength. The test results for disc specimens are the closest to the actual tensile strength, followed by arc-transition dumbbell-shaped specimens, and lastly, straight-transition dumbbell-shaped specimens. The correlation coefficients between the test results and the actual tensile strength for the three types of specimens are also provided.
[121] Damin Xia,Yaowen Li,Shipin Qin .Out-of-plane constraint for 2D representative volume element model of dual phase steels under uniaxial tension[J].Computational Materials Science,2025,246 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Accurately capturing the microscopic mechanical response of dual-phase (DP) steels is crucial for improving their mechanical properties. Representative Volume Element (RVE) modeling is widely used to probe microstructural behavior, but due to computational restrictions, inherently three-dimensional microstructures are often simplified to two-dimensional models with out-of-plane constraints such as plane stress or plane strain. In this study, the out-of-plane constraint is investigated through 3D and 2D RVE modeling of DP steels. The 3D model was developed with synthesized microstructure and crystal plasticity to simulate microscopic stress state and macroscopic stress strain response in full 3D settings. The 2D models were developed with four different conditions for the out-of-plane effects: plane stress, plane strain, and two newly proposed average plane stress conditions. The results were evaluated by stress-strain curves, out-of-plane stress fields, as well as its statistical analyses under uniaxial tension loading condition. The findings reveal that applying the average plane stress condition to the entire 2D RVE model provides the most accurate approximation, regardless of grain morphology, martensite volume fraction, and texture.
[122] Guanshuang Tan,Chunde Ma,Junjie Zhang ,等.Mechanical behavior of rock under uniaxial tension:Insights from energy storage and dissipation[J].Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering,2024,16 (7):2466-2481,Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：Many rock engineering projects show that the growth of tensile cracks is often an important cause of engineering disasters,and the mechanical behavior of rocks is essentially the transmission,storage,dissipation and release of *** investigate the tensile behavior of rock from the perspective of energy,uniaxial tension tests(UTTs)and uniaxial compression tests(UCTs)were carried out on three typical rocks(granite,sandstone and marble).Different unloading points were set before the peak stress to separate elastic energy and dissipated *** input energy density ut,elastic energy density ue,and dissipated energy density ud at each unloading point were calculated by integrating stress-strain *** results show that there is a strong linear relationship between the three energy parameters and the square of the unloading stress in UCT,but this linear relationship is weaker in *** ue and ud increase linearly with the increase in ut in UCT and *** on the phenomenon that ue and ud increase linearly with ut,the applicability of W_(et)^(p) index in UTT was proved and the relative energy storage capacity and absolute energy distribution characteristics of three rocks in UCT and UTT were *** tensile behavior of marble and sandstone in UTT can be divided into two stages vaguely according to the energy distribution,but granite is not the *** addition,based on dissipated energy,the damage evolution of three types of rocks in UCT and UTT was *** study provides some new insights for understanding the tensile behavior of rock.
[123] Xiangnan Qin,Xin Wang,Jinjun Guo ,等.Parameter investigation and efficiency evaluation of unified phase-field theory in mesoscale fracture analysis of fully-graded concrete under uniaxial tension[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,314 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study investigates the parameter sensitivity and computational efficiency of the Phase-field Cohesive Zone Model (PF-CZM) for mesoscale fracture behavior simulation of fully-graded concrete under uniaxial tension. The developed mesoscale model exhibits relatively low mesh sensitivity and successfully captures the complete crack propagation path from damage initiation to ultimate failure in concrete. By integrating classical experimental results, this study evaluates the influence of computational parameters on the simulation results of fully-graded concrete specimens, including time-stepping, convergence tolerance, length scale parameter and mesh element size. The findings indicate that the mechanical response and energy variation of concrete during the plastic and softening stages are closely related to the time-stepping, while the computational efficiency is highly dependent on both time-stepping and convergence tolerance. Furthermore, the effective preferences are recommended for these computational parameters. Based on the evaluation results of the obtained parameters, the adjusted mesoscale model primarily shows dispersed cracks randomly distributed around the aggregates in the vertical direction, without excessive localized discrete damage. The unified phase-field damage theory was systematically validated for its applicability and effectiveness in heterogeneous quasi-brittle materials during this process.
[124] Yang, Xia,Ku, Xiaoli,Liu, Zhihan ,等.The influence of tensile rate on stress-strain test results of hydrogels[J].Polymer Bulletin,2025,82 (13):8169-8179,SPRINGER
摘要：This study investigates the impact of tensile rates on the stress-strain test results of hydrogels and explores the underlying causes of such impacts. The mechanical properties of hydrogels have always been a focus of research. However, due to their complex composition and structure, there is a lack of universal testing standards. In this work, polyacrylamide (PAM) hydrogels were selected as the research object to explore the variation patterns of their maximum stress and maximum strain at different tensile rates. Experimental results showed that as the tensile rate increased, both the maximum strain and maximum stress of PAM hydrogels exhibited a decreasing trend. To explore methods for reducing the influence of tensile rates, this study introduced cellulose nanofibers (CNF) and graphene oxide (GO) to prepare PAM-CNF and PAM-GO composite hydrogels. Both PAM-CNF and PAM-GO hydrogels exhibited higher mechanical strength and were less affected by tensile rates compared to PAM. In particular, PAM-GO demonstrated a significant increase in elastic modulus, with test results barely affected by tensile rates. This study provides a reference for assessing the mechanical properties of hydrogels and eliminates the influence of tensile rates on test results by enhancing the strength of the hydrogel's crosslinking network structure.
[125] Gang Xu,Nan Jia,Yang Li ,等.New method for uniaxial tensile test of UHPFRC[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,316 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, we investigated the direct tensile test method of ultra-high performance fiber reinforced concrete. Proposed three evaluation indexes:Variation in the principal tensile stress rate <em>β</em>, uniformity of principal tensile stress <em>η</em>, and relative length of isostress area <em>γ</em> to evaluate the stress characteristics of specimens. Based on the stress analysis of the specimen, studied the influence of specimen shape, size and loading mode on the evaluation index of force characteristics, and designs a new UHPFRC-axis pull specimen test method for the goal of relieving stress concentration, and verifies the effectiveness of the new method. It is found that, the new specimen has a more random damage location and a more uniform stress distribution in the tensile test, and the success rate of testing the tensile strength after local reinforcement reaches 100%.
[126] Thirugnanasambandam, Arunkumar,Subramaniyan, Mohan Kumar,Gobiraman, Anand .Microstructure and finite element simulation (tensile test) of stainless steel wall produced by wire and arc additive manufacturing[J].Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers,Part E: Journal of Process Mechanical Engineering,2026,240 (1):837-847,SAGE PUBLICATIONS LTD
摘要：This investigation aims to provide functional insight into simulating the tensile behavior of additively fabricated stainless steel 316L plate using finite element simulation and the Johnson-Cook model of ductile damage. The stainless steel 316L plate is fabricated through wire arc additive manufacturing using ideal process variables selected through numerous trial and error experiments. There is a significant increase in the strength of additively fabricated specimens (517.9 MPa) than wrought alloy samples (491.3 MPa). Finite element simulation was used successfully to simulate the tensile test, and the outcomes were predicted with an error percentage of less than 1. The significant enhancement in the strength is due to variations in the microstructure such as dendritic growth, phase changes influenced by complex thermal cycle, and residual delta-ferrite in wire arc additive manufacturing plate. The presence of residual delta-ferrite is also clear through the evaluation of ferrite number as it varied from bottom to top in the range of 5.2-4.9.
[127] Markides, Ch. F.,Kourkoulis, S. K. .Reconsidering the Determination of the Tensile Strength of Orthotropic Rocks by Means of the Brazilian Disc Test[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2025,58 (4):4459-4482,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：The determination of the tensile strength of rocks is a critical issue, closely related to the safety aspect of sustainable mining. In this direction, the present study deals with the problem of estimating the tensile strength of orthotropic rocks by means of the familiar Brazilian disc test. Taking into account that for orthotropic materials purely uniaxial tensile stress fields can be realized in case the material is stretched uniaxially along any one of its three anisotropy directions (weak, moderate and strong direction), it is reasonable to accept that an orthotropic material is characterized by three parameters that represent its tensile strength. To achieve the determination of these parameters, three circular discs are cut from an orthotropic body so that the axis of each disc to be parallel to one of the characteristic directions of the material. Each disc is submitted to diametral compression (according to the standardized procedure suggested by the International Society for Rock Mechanics for the Brazilian disc test) along its remaining two (in-plane) characteristic directions resulting, thus, in six loading schemes. The stress field developed at the center of the discs for each loading scheme and, also, at the disc-loading plate contact region is determined by means of proper formulation of recently introduced analytic, closed form solution based on Lekhnitskii's pioneering studies. The procedure is applied for two natural rocks the mechanical constants of which are obtained from the literature. In the light of the results of this study, the efficiency of the indirect tensile test in predicting the three tensile strengths of the orthotropic material is critically discussed. It is pointed out that, under certain restrictions, the Brazilian disc test provides data that correspond to the tensile strengths of an orthotropic material. However, it is clearly highlighted, also, that the basic principle on which the Brazilian disc test is based, namely the direc
[128] 朱平,董全霄,袁丽慧 ,等.聚氨酯弹性垫板老化前后的微观结构与单轴拉伸形变机理[J].高分子学报,2026,57 (2):398-408
摘要：聚氨酯弹性垫板是高速铁路无砟轨道结构扣件系统中提供弹性缓振、保证列车高速运行安全和舒适的关键部件.本研究通过示差扫描量热法、扫描电子显微镜、傅里叶变换红外光谱、原位同步辐射X射线广角衍射/小角散射等多种表征方法系统分析了聚氨酯弹性垫板在高低温循环老化、湿热老化和高温老化前后的微观结构变化及其在单轴拉伸外场下的结构演化.高低温老化对材料影响不显著;湿热老化对聚氨酯弹性垫板的影响最大,导致样品泡孔平均直径减小,泡孔密度增大,泡孔壁出现裂纹,微相分离程度显著提高,硬段玻璃化温度提高,聚四亚甲基氧醚(PTMO)软段受硬段限制作用减弱,发生一定程度的结晶,导致材料的刚度提高,弹性下降.在单轴拉伸过程中,湿热老化后和高温老化样品的PTMO软段发生应变诱导结晶,提高了样品的拉伸及抗撕裂强度.
[129] Lina Gozali,Ronaldo Setiawan,Frans Jusuf Daywin ,等.Design of an ergonomic lounge chair using water hyacinth material after going through a tensile test[J].Sustainable Futures,2026,11 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In Indonesia, Water Hyacinth (Eichornia crassipes) is a wild plant species that grows in rivers or lakes. This species multiplies, which can cause a significant problem for water transportation. Due to increasing concerns around climate change and environmental sustainability, the construction industry is looking for alternative materials and methods to reduce environmental impact. The "Adjustable Chair" u ses an ergonomic approach to achieve an attractive and comfortable product. This research seeks to positively impact fishermen's job security and the biodiversity in the water bodies' ecosystem and to develop an ergonomic product that uses both traditional and modern minimalist styles in designing the product. Therefore, a product that is both comfortable and attractive can be created. This research aims to utilise wild WH waste on water bodies' surface that threatens water transportation and its ecosystem for designing the adjustable chair through the market research study and ergonomically design with product development selection concept and tensile test. Based on the tensile test that has been carried out, it can be seen from the graph that the tensile test of 3 twisted WH stems has a tensile strength that is much stronger than the tensile test using one WH stem, two WH stems, and three WH stems. The tensile test of 3 twisted WH stems had more muscular strength with a tensile test time of 9 min 38 s with an increase in length of 2.5 mm. So, making an adjustable chair will use twisted WH stems. It can form an adjustable chair, which, if woven with large amounts of WH, the resulting product will be more durable, and the material will be more robust.
[130] Davolio, Marco,Xi, Bin,Ferrara, Liberato .Tensile constitutive law identification for ultra-high-performance concrete: interchangeability of test methods[J].Materials and Structures,2026,59 (1):40-40,SPRINGER
摘要：This study presents a multi-method framework for the tensile characterization of Ultra-High Performance Concrete (UHPC) with enhanced autogenous healing capacity, developed to reflect realistic service-life conditions. The primary objective is to assess the reliability and compatibility of different test methods for identifying tensile constitutive behaviour in self-healing UHPC. To this end, a UHPC mix containing crystalline admixtures was cast on-site, then cut into thin beams and double-edge wedge splitting (DEWS) specimens. These were pre-cracked, subjected to sustained deformation using external bracing, and exposed to various environmental conditions. Tensile performance was evaluated through DEWS, direct tension (DT), and four-point bending (4PB) tests, with simplified inverse analysis used to extract tensile laws from 4PB data. Results showed a consistent, though modest, increase in tensile strength over time across all methods except DEWS specimens with narrow initial cracks, where early healing limited further evolution. DEWS and inverse analysis provided comparable results, while DT tests were more affected by residual deformation and exhibited lower values and greater scatter. Statistical comparisons using Bland-Altman analysis and Deming regression confirmed the robustness of DEWS and 4PB methods and identified systematic deviations in DT measurements. While the methodology shows strong potential for application in structural-scale UHPC assessment, further validation with a broader dataset and different UHPC formulations is necessary to ensure generalizability and refine its predictive capabilities.
[131] Sixiong Zeng,Peinan Du,Huan Sheng Lai ,等.Study on the axial tensile properties of cladding tubes using a modified small punch test[J].International Journal of Pressure Vessels and Piping,2025,215 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Tensile properties play a critical role in characterizing the mechanical behavior of cladding tubes. In this study, a modified small punch test (SPT) called single stress small punch test (SS-SPT) was proposed to investigate the axial tensile properties of cladding tubes. Semi-cylindrical SS-SPT specimens, directly prepared from cladding tubes, were subjected to a single stress state under an applied punch force. Finite element simulation results demonstrated that determining both yield stress and ultimate tensile stress using the SS-SPT was not only feasible but also accurate. Moreover, the axial tensile properties of a FeCrAl cladding tube were investigated using the SS-SPT. It was observed that the determined axial yield stress and ultimate tensile stress of the FeCrAl cladding tube exhibited a reduction of 7 %, compared to those obtained from axial uniaxial tensile tests.
[132] Hong, Bo Seung,Shin, Young Bin,Jung, Dong Suk ,等.Combined elastoplastic finite element method and tube tensile test method to accurately characterize flow behaviors of tubular metallic materials[J].The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology,2025,141 (9-10):5373-5388,SPRINGER LONDON LTD
摘要：An efficient and practical method of the combined elastoplastic finite element method (FEM) and tube tensile test method (CF3TM) for obtaining accurate flow curves of tubular materials is presented. The CF3TM iteratively reduces the difference in the tube tensile load at the selected sample points between the finite element (FE) predictions obtained using the piecewise linear function flow (PLFF) model of effective strain and their corresponding experiments. Due to the nature of the tubular material, a snug-fitting plug is inserted to reinforce the grips, and the outer skin of the major elongation section is appropriately turned to divide the tubular material into a deformable body section and a strong grip section. The difference between the FE analysis model and the actual tube tensile test is minimized using a multi-body analysis model of the plug and the material. The CF3TM is applied to the SUS 304 tubular material. As a result, starting from the initial flow curve with an average error of 26.5% based on the tube tensile load, a flow function providing a tube tensile test prediction result with an average error of less than 0.16% is obtained with only two iterative calculations.
[133] Da Cai,Hao Jiang,Peng Wang ,等.Test piece design, mechanical properties and fracture strain in two-step tensile testing of lightweight materials at high strain rates[J].International Journal of Impact Engineering,2025,206 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Continuous forming at high strain rates is an important research direction for future precision forming of light alloys. In this study, dynamic behavior of AA5052 aluminum alloy in two-step tensile testing at high strain rates were investigated. Special two-step tensile test piece at high strain rate was designed. The test piece of the special design contained a weak structural notch area and a dog-bone shaped area. The test piece was pre-stretched to a pre-determined strain so that the weak region broke. Then a secondary stretching was performed. The response surface equations of pre-strain and pre-strain rate were established separately to evaluate the functional relationship between the notch interval, tensile velocity and strain rate, and equivalent plastic strain. The effects of the parameters on the fracture strain were compared. The results showed that the test pieces could meet the requirements of the two-step tensile test at high strain rates. The pre-strain and pre-strain rate were affected by the size of the notch interval and the tensile velocity. The increase of tensile strength was related to pre-strain and secondary strain rate. The linear cumulative damage criterion can be used to interpret the two-step stretching at high strain rates. When the strain rate in single-step stretching is the same as the strain rate in each step of two-step stretching, the fracture strain in single-step stretching can be substituted for the fracture strain in two-step stretching. Research can help solve the problems of poor formability and early failure of lightweight alloys.
[134] Fedak, Serhiy,Yasniy, Oleh,Fedak, Sofia ,等.Deformation patterns of AMg6 alloy under conditions of uniaxial tension in the areas of jump strain hardening[M].Procedia Structural Integrity,2026,81 :305-309,Elsevier B.V.
摘要：This research involves a detailed study of the deformation parameters of the AMg6 alloy in uniaxial tension, with particular attention to the material’s strengthening regions. A specific dependency was identified that quantifies the change in deformation magnitude immediately following the jump-like increments caused by the fracture of the dispersed phases of the alloy. The paper introduces a practical method for incorporating these observed patterns into a predictive model of the general deformation behavior of AMg6 alloy, using a diagram of internal dispersed particle distribution. Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
[135] Kamer, Muhammed Safa .The effect of cutting parameters in CNC milling on mechanical properties of 3D-printed polylactic acid tensile test samples: axis speed, cutting direction and number of cutting tool teeth[J].Iranian Polymer Journal,2025,34 (10):1647-1663,SPRINGER
摘要：Polylactic acid (PLA) filament is the most commonly used material in three-dimensional printers produced using the fused filament fabrication method. Studies on determining and developing the mechanical properties of 3D-printed PLA materials according to printing parameters continue in the literature. The innovation of this study is to determine the optimum cutting parameters with CNC (computer numerical control) milling of the test samples to determine the real mechanical properties of 3D-printed PLA tensile test samples. For this purpose, tensile test samples were produced using PLA filament with a 3D-printer, and the side edges of the produced samples were cut with a CNC milling machine using different cutting parameters. The cutting temperature, masses, surface roughness, and hardness of the products produced with this method were measured, and SEM images were taken from the cutting surfaces. As a result, it was determined that cutting temperatures and arithmetic average roughness values increased as the feed per tooth increased. It was determined that there was a 4 similar to 5 times increase in the elongation-at-break of the tensile test samples whose side surfaces were cut with a CNC milling machine. Among the parameters that are cut with CNC milling, the 5-4-500-Cl parameter, which has the lowest cutting temperature, feed per tooth, and the lowest arithmetic average roughness value, was chosen as the most suitable parameter for PLA material milling. The tensile modulus of the test sample in the selected parameter was determined to be 2.777 GPa, tensile strength was 48.442 MPa, and elongation-at-break was 15.043%.
[136] Yi-Chun Lai,Ming-Hui Lee .Dynamic double punch test for the tensile properties of ultra-high-performance concrete[J].Construction and Building Materials,2025,501 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Dynamic mechanical behavior of materials is obtained using high strain rate loading. There are many ways to evaluate dynamic tensile properties. However, the accuracy of these properties may be affected by limitations in the instrument's loading capacity, data distortion caused by specimen cracking outside the gauge section, or discrepancies between quasi-static conditions and results from direct tensile tests. This is the first time a double punch test (DPT), utilizing a split-Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB), is proposed to obtain the dynamic tensile behavior. This study utilized SHPB for impact tests and dynamic double punch test (DDPT). Additionally, the mechanical properties of ultra-high-performance concrete (UHPC) with two different aspect ratios of steel fibers (S1 and S2) were compared. S2 achieved a strength of 31.9 MPa at a high strain rate (about 150 s⁻¹), with a dynamic increase factor (DIF) of 2.5, outperforming S1 (26.5 MPa), indicating that a higher aspect ratio yields better tensile performance. After verification, the experimental results are reasonable and validate the feasibility of the DDPT proposed in this study.
[137] Ostropiko, Eugeny,Krivosheev, Sergey,Magazinov, Sergey ,等.Features of functional behavior of TiNi shape memory alloy after uniaxial high speed magnetic pulse tension[J].Mechanics of Advanced Materials and Structures,2025,32 (3):424-430,TAYLOR & FRANCIS INC
摘要：This study investigates the influence of high strain rate on the functional properties of TiNi shape memory alloys. Specimens were deformed in tensile mode using a magnetic pulse loading setup equipped with an optical system to measure the loading time. The technique allows to obtain different strain rates without changing the working part of the specimens, i.e. the residual strains remained the same. The results show that the shape memory effect decreases by 10-25% with increasing strain rate. However, a high strain rate has a positive effect on the two-way shape memory, which increases by 10-25%.
[138] Wang, Xufeng,Li, Jiakang,Chen, Yi ,等.Method for In Situ On-Wafer Tensile Test of Thin Films[J].Micromachines,2025,16 (3):262,MDPI
摘要：This study addresses the need for a mechanical property characterization of films during Micro-Electro-Mechanical System (MEMS) processing by proposing a novel in situ on-wafer tensile strength testing method for film materials. This method integrates the film specimen with a bulk silicon test structure during fabrication, allowing for tensile strength measurements with a resolution of 0.05 MPa using only a probe and optical microscope. Utilizing this method, we successfully performed in situ on-wafer tensile strength tests on Al films of various sizes, demonstrating the impact of the process on film mechanical properties. The results validate the potential of this structure for characterizing material mechanical properties and monitoring process quality in mass production.
[139] Song, Chen,Chen, Yu,Cheng, Ke ,等.Test Method to Evaluate the Tensile Performance of Hyperelastic Binders with Large Deformation[J].Journal of Materials in Civil Engineering,2025,37 (6),ASCE-AMER SOC CIVIL ENGINEERS
摘要：Airport pavements, especially runway holding positions, are susceptible to high shear forces and thus rutting damages under the coupling effect of heavy aircraft loads and high temperatures. Pavements produced with commonly used asphalt binders have not been able to overcome rutting distress due to their thermoplastic nature, especially in summer. In this study, a newly developed hyperelastic binder, which is temperature independent after curing, was attempted to replace asphalt binder for pavement construction. However, the tensile properties of this hyperelastic binder cannot be properly determined due to its strong hyperelasticity using conventional direct tensile tests. In this research, a new direct tensile test method for hyperelastic binder was developed, and fracture energy density was used as a parameter for the tensile performance evaluation. Finite-element modeling results showed that the newly developed test can cause a high stress concentration in the middle part of the specimen to accelerate the fracture of testing specimens. The fracture energy density obtained from this test method was found to have great precision and accuracy, which indicates that this test method can serve as a candidate of the tensile property evaluation for hyperelastic materials.
[140] M.R.M. Aliha,Hamid Reza Karimi,S.M.N. Ghoreishi .A novel disc bend test specimen for realistic measuring of tensile strength in pavements under transverse cracking condition[J].Case Studies in Construction Materials,2025,22 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The tensile strength of asphaltic mixtures is an important parameter in designing the pavement materials and life assessment of the overlays. This parameter is often determined experimentally by using the indirect diametral tension (IDT) test or sometimes by employing the semi-circular bend (SCB) test. However, neither can provide accurate and true tensile strength values for practical and field situations. While the applied load to the overlay induced by traffic loading is along the compaction direction, there is a 90-degree angle difference between the direction of applied loading to the IDT and SCB samples and the compaction direction of the asphalt mixture manufactured inside the Marshall or Gyratory cylinders. Hence, in this research, a novel test specimen is proposed for the first time to measure the tensile strength of asphalt concrete materials in more realistic conditions. The proposed method utilizes a disc shape sample named Symmetric Disc Bend (SDB), which is a specimen loaded by a conventional three-point bending fixture. The tensile strength value obtained from the SDB specimen was observed to be significantly greater than the results obtained from the SCB and IDT methods for any given test conditions. The main reason for such discrepancy can be attributed to the compaction direction of the asphalt mixture and the applied loading direction to the samples. Accordingly, the tensile cracking resistance of the HMA mixture along the compaction direction is significantly higher than in the other directions. Therefore, the test data often determined from the IDT testing method can provide conservative predictions for the service life of real asphaltic pavements. In addition, due to the bending type load in the SDB testing procedure, the proposed method provides better consistency with the tensile cracking of real flexible pavements subjected to bending type loads applied from the vehicles. Some suitable SDB dimensions and loading span ranges were proposed for
[141] Kuzminov, E. D.,Shugurov, A. R.,Derbin, A. Yu. ,等.Effect of si content in Ti-Al-Ta-Si-N coatings on their fracture under uniaxial tension[J].Russian Physics Journal,2024,67 (11):2056-2065,SPRINGER
摘要：Effect of Si content on the patterns of deformation and fracture of Ti1-x-y-zAlxTaySizN coatings under uniaxial tension is investigated. The nanoindentation method has shown that the coating with z = 0.10 has the maximum hardness, which is caused by the formation of a thin grain-boundary amorphous SiNx phase. At the same time, the Ti0.35Al0.40Ta0.10Si0.15N coating showed the highest fracture resistance and adhesive strength. It is found that this effect is due to the suppression of the growth of columnar grains in this coating and the formation of a two-phase amorphous-nanocrystalline structure, which makes it difficult for cracks to propagate.
[142] Jun-Zhi Liu,Peng Chen,Jia-Chen Guo ,等.Net section tensile behaviour of hot-rolled stainless-clad steel bolted connections – Test, modelling and design[J].Thin-Walled Structures,2026,223 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Stainless-clad steel (SCS) is a high-performance composite material that combines the high strength of structural steel with the strong corrosion resistance of stainless steel. This paper examines the net section tensile behaviour of single-sided SCS (SSSCS) bolted connections under double shear. The cladding layer of SSSCS is made of 304 austenitic stainless steel, and the substrate material comes from Q235B mild steel. Both experimental tests and finite element analysis (FEA) were employed to study the failure mode and the deformation response of the bolted connections. The results demonstrated that all specimens failed by net section fracture and were able to attain their theoretical tensile resistance, with no debonding failure observed between two layers throughout tests. A comprehensive parametric analysis was further conducted to evaluate the effects of the connection edge distance, gauge distance, and the pitch distance on the net section tensile behaviour. The obtained test and FEA data were used to assess the applicability of existing design specifications. The findings indicate that the design equations in EN 1993-1-1:2022 and AISC 360-22 provide accurate, albeit slightly conservative, predictions for the net section tensile capacity of DSSCS bolted connections.
[143] Mensah, Desmond,Pitkin, Nicholas,Miles, Michael P. ,等.The Effect of Specimen Width on the Deformation Behavior and Formability of cp-Ti Grade 4 Sheets During Uniaxial and Cyclic Bending Under Tension Loading[J].Materials,2024,17 (23):5756,MDPI
摘要：This study examines the specimen size-dependent deformation behavior of commercially pure titanium grade 4 (cp-Ti grade 4) sheets under tension, with strain paths between uniaxial tension (UT) and plane-strain tension and compares the results with cyclic bending under tension (CBT) data. Specimens of varying widths (11.7, 20, 60, 100, and 140 mm) were tested in both rolling (RD) and transverse (TD) directions. The research employed digital image correlation for full-field strain measurements, finite element simulations, and fracture surface thickness data. Contrary to traditional forming concepts, i.e., the forming limit diagram (FLD) has the lowest major strain at the plane-strain condition, and the fracture forming limit has decreased major strain with increasing (less negative) minor strain, wider specimens exhibited higher major strains at strain localization and fracture under UT. In contrast, CBT findings showed decreased formability with increasing width, i.e., closer to plane-strain deformation, as expected. Strain distribution analyses revealed a transition from nearly uniform deformation in narrow specimens to multiaxial strain states in wider specimens. Thickness measurements along the fracture surface revealed a steeper profile in UT compared to CBT, indicating more localized deformation and necking in UT. In comparison with AA6016-T4, the cp-Ti grade 4 showed greater thickness, suggesting lower susceptibility to localized thinning. Strong anisotropy was observed between the RD and TD, with TD specimens showing higher formability and steeper thickness gradients in UT. Strain fields, along with thickness reduction and adiabatic heating, are used to rationalize the observed width-sensitive deformation behavior of cp-Ti sheets. Notably, CBT improved overall formability compared to UT due to its ability to distribute strain more evenly and delay critical necking. The contrasting trends between simple UT and CBT emphasize the relationship between loading cond
[144] Feng Yu,Jian Fang,Mingcheng Sun ,等.Assessment of tensile properties and fracture toughness of ultra-high-strength oil casing steels via instrumented spherical indentation test[J].International Journal of Pressure Vessels and Piping,2026,221 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To address the demand for rapid, non-destructive, and accurate characterization of ultra-high-strength oil casing steels in H<sub>2</sub>S-containing environments, this study combined standard tests with the instrumented spherical indentation test (ISIT) to evaluate the tensile properties, fracture toughness, and post-hydrogen-induced cracking (HIC) performance of three XCoMo-series steels (Q125, Q140, Q165). Key findings: 1) The three steels broke the strength-toughness trade-off, with Q165 showing the best performance due to the synergy of grain refinement and alloy strengthening. 2) Validated against ISO standards, ISIT achieved prediction errors of ≤10 % for yield stress, ≤5 % for ultimate tensile stress, and ≤15 % for fracture toughness, enabling non-destructive, and rapid in-situ characterization. 3) After HIC exposure, all three steels showed an elastic modulus decrease of ≥25.4 % with grade-specific strength response characteristics, while Q165 maintained the smallest fracture toughness reduction (3.3 %). Notably, ISIT realized quantitative characterization of HIC-induced performance degradation, successfully filling the evaluation gap of traditional HIC tests and providing direct data support for performance degradation assessment.
[145] Hajivand Dastgerdi, Rashid,Malinowska, Agnieszka A. .Experimental and Numerical Insights into the Semi-Circular Bend (SCB) Test for Tensile Strength Estimation in Rock-like Materials[J].Materials,2025,18 (18):4285,MDPI
摘要：The uncracked semi-circular bend (SCB) test has recently gained attention as a simple and material-efficient method for determining the tensile strength of brittle geomaterials. However, as reported in the literature and confirmed by our experiments, localized damage at the roller supports remains a critical limitation that may compromise measurement accuracy and test validity. This study addresses this limitation through experimental testing on red and gray sandstone, complemented by numerical simulations to provide deeper insight into stress distribution and fracture mechanisms in the SCB test. Experimental results showed that six out of twelve specimens experienced local damage, ranging from slight crushing and surficial cracking at the base roller zones in red sandstone to rock chipping in gray sandstone. The stiffer sandstone exhibited more severe local damage due to its limited deformability. These damages were attributed to minor geometric imperfections introduced during sample preparation. Nevertheless, all tests yielded valid tensile strength values, with SCB results showing good agreement with Brazilian test outcomes and demonstrating significantly lower coefficients of variation. Finite element simulations confirmed that crack initiation consistently occurred at the middle of the flat edge under pure tensile stress, indicating a mode I fracture mechanism. Numerical analyses further revealed pronounced stress concentrations, particularly compressive stresses, at the roller contact zones, induced by the specimen's low span-to-depth ratio, which increased the fracture load required for failure.
[146] Nguyen, Trong-Linh,Pham, Anh-Vu,Cheng, Tsung-Chieh ,等.Atomistic insights into the thermo-mechanical behavior of D022-TiAl3 with prismatic voids under uniaxial tension[J].Materials Today Communications,2025,48 ,ELSEVIER
摘要：Understanding the effects of internal voids on the thermo-mechanical response of TiAl3-based intermetallics is critical for their reliable application in extreme environments. In this study, large-scale MD simulations were conducted to systematically investigate how prismatic voids of varying sizes, strain rates, and temperatures influence the deformation behavior of monocrystalline D022-TiAl3 under uniaxial tension. The results reveal that increasing void size significantly degrades tensile strength, elastic modulus, and strain energy, while promoting early plasticity, phase transformation, and localized shear. Intermediate-sized voids activate deformation twinning and yield the highest flow stress, suggesting a complex interaction between defect geometry and plastic mechanisms. Strain-rate-dependent simulations demonstrate that higher loading rates suppress dislocation mobility, enhance strength, and induce localized amorphization, whereas lower rates facilitate stable dislocationmediated plasticity. Temperature elevation leads to thermal softening, reduced yield strength, and disordered deformation modes dominated by amorphous transformation and simplified dislocation networks. These findings provide atomistic insights into how internal defects, loading conditions, and thermal environments synergistically govern the mechanical performance and failure characteristics of D022-TiAl3.
[147] Jin Guo,Jun Ye,Zhao Yang ,等.Study on the mechanical-electrical performance of printed graphene-based flexible sensors under uniaxial tension[J].Sensors and Actuators A: Physical,2025,387 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study employs screen-printing technology to deposit graphene conductive ink onto an elastic thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU) substrate, successfully fabricating a graphene-based flexible strain sensor. The mechanical-strain-electrical performance of the sensor were systematically investigated through uniaxial tensile testing, with a focus on the influence of various parameters, including strain range, stretching rate, and the number of printed layers, on its response characteristics. During the experiments, key performance metrics of the sensor, such as sensitivity, linearity, hysteresis, cyclic stability, and stress/resistance relaxation phenomena, were closely examined. The experimental data were analyzed and discussed in conjunction with the viscoelastic properties of the polymer material. To further elucidate the mechanical-electrical response mechanism of the sensor, mechanical and electrical circuit simulation models were established, aiming to construct a mathematical model of the sensor's mechanical-electrical response relationship. This work facilitates the calibration and application of such sensors and provides new research insights into exploring their mechanical and electrical response mechanisms under three-dimensional complex stress states.
[148] Vito Cedro III,Kolawole Bello .On the use of tensile test time to adjust the time to rupture term in creep rupture life models whose stress term is normalized by tensile strength[J].International Journal of Pressure Vessels and Piping,2025,217 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Creep life models which normalize stress by an ultimate tensile strength (UTS), such as the Wilshire equation, have a mathematical structure which results in the time to rupture being zero when the applied stress equals the UTS. However, the duration of a standard tensile test used to determine UTS is finite. Recently, two very different approaches to address this issue have appeared in the literature. In this study, these approaches are quantitatively compared by correlating them to the same set of creep rupture data with the Wilshire equation. Predicted times to rupture of each model are also compared with equivalent times to creep rupture of slow and fast constant strain rate tests performed on the same alloy, and the preferred method to account for finite tensile test times is identified.
[149] Angelo Oñate,Martin Castro,Carlos Medina ,等.Influence of martensite and grain size on the mechanical behavior of austenitic Fe–C–Mn–Ni–Al medium Mn steels with TWIP mechanism under uniaxial tension/compression and micromechanical creep[J].Materials Chemistry and Physics,2024,328 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Medium Mn steels with induced plasticity mechanisms have effectively addressed the high-strength and ductility requirements for structural applications. However, there is still uncertainty about the impact of residual martensite on medium Mn steels with an austenitic matrix under uniaxial tension and compression. Furthermore, research on the influence of grain size through incomplete recrystallization in medium Mn alloys is scarce. In this context, our study focused on design and manufacturing a medium Mn Fe–<em>C</em>–Mn–Ni–Al alloy through controlled atmosphere casting incorporating martensite, aiming to analyze its effects under uniaxial stress conditions. Thermomechanical and annealing heat treatments were applied to control grain growth and nucleation of new grains, allowing us to explore how grain size affects the twinning process and mechanical reinforcement in the alloy. Microstructural characterization techniques, including optical and scanning electron microscopy, were employed to assess the mechanical response and damage mechanisms. Mechanical tests included tension, compression, and nanoindentation. The results indicated that residual martensite generates an accelerated damage mechanism under tension due to co-deformation at the interface with austenite, resulting in crack nucleation and rapid propagation through mode I fracture. Consequently, ductility in tension significantly decreases, while no apparent failure is observed during the compression deformation process. Furthermore, incomplete recrystallization was observed to enhance the creep response in both tension and compression. The strain hardening rate results revealed the activation of primary twinning in tension and both primary and secondary twinning in compression for annealed samples. Nanoindentation tests confirmed the presence of twinning and revealed that diffusion creep and grain boundary sliding are the predominant creep mechanisms.
[150] Zhang, Xiang,Liu, Yaping,Yang, Fan .Dislocation slip induced lattice rotation in quasi-3D Ni samples during uniaxial tension based on molecular dynamics simulations[J].Journal of Materials Science,2024,59 (2):535-547,SPRINGER
摘要：Lattice rotation mechanism plays an important role in the plastic deformation and the microstructure evolution of nanocrystalline metals. It assists the grain growth and the polycrystal texture formation. In this paper, the lattice rotation of quasi-3D Ni samples under uniaxial tension is investigated by molecular dynamics simulations. For this purpose, the bi-crystal and polycrystal models are created and systematic molecular dynamics simulations are carried out to mimic the uniaxial tensile tests. Based on the Schmid shear slip theory, the relationship between the Schmid factor of different slip systems and the grain orientation angle is established. It is found that the starting slip system angle is a fixed angle with the initial orientation angle of grain. Moreover, the cumulative rotation of the grain slip system and the initial angle of the slip system are statistically analyzed. It is found that a larger deflection angle of the slip system leads to a larger lattice rotation.
[151] Wenfu He,Haonan Zhan,Baolin Hu ,等.Post-fire mechanical properties of low yield steel in uniaxial tension[J].Journal of Constructional Steel Research,2025,227 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Low yield point (LYP) steel is characterized by low yield strength, high ductility, and excellent energy dissipation capacity, making it widely used in structural energy dissipation components for engineering applications. However, the possible reduction of LYP steel's post-fire mechanical performances remains a concern for practical application. This study investigates 42 LYP160 specimens subjected to high-temperature exposure, ranging from ambient temperature to 800 °C, followed by either air cooling or water immersion cooling. Uniaxial tensile tests are performed to obtain stress-strain curves and evaluate the mechanical properties of the specimens. Additionally, the fracture morphologies and metallurgical structures are analyzed under different cooling methods. Based on these observations, predictive equations for the post-fire mechanical properties of LYP160 are developed, providing a scientific foundation and theoretical guidance for engineering applications.
[152] Zhao, Dapeng,Wang, Changjun,Li, Ke ,等.An Experimental and Analytical Study on a Damage Constitutive Model of Engineered Cementitious Composites under Uniaxial Tension[J].Materials,2022,15 (17):6063,MDPI
摘要：Engineered cementitious composites (ECC) exhibit ultra-high ductility and post-cracking resistance, which makes it an attractive material in civil engineering. First, a monotonic uniaxial tensile test was performed, considering the effects of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) fiber volume content and water-binder ratio. Then, the effects of the above variables on the tensile characteristics including the tensile stress-strain relationship, deformation capacity, and fracture energy were investigated based on test results;and when the water-binder ratio is 0.28 and the fiber volume content is 2%, the deformation performance of ECC is improved most significantly. Next, combined with damage mechanics theory, the damage evolution mechanism of ECC in monotonic uniaxial tension was revealed, based on which the damage factor and damage evolution equation of ECC were developed and the expressions of model parameters were proposed. Moreover, the comparison between the proposed model and test results demonstrated the accuracy of the proposed model. Finally, to further verify the feasibility of the proposed model, a finite element (FE) simulation analysis of the tensile performance of high-strength stainless steel wire rope (HSSWR) reinforced ECC by adopting the proposed model was compared with test results and the simulation analysis results by using anther existing model, the "trilinear model of ECC". The comparison shows that the proposed model in this paper can predict more accurately.
[153] Shi Liu,Chuanxin Cai,Shaoxu Hao ,等.Impact tensile test and numerical analysis of the dynamic behavior of sandstone ring specimens using a split Hopkinson hollow tensile bar[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,319 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Most rock bodies encountered in underground engineering projects are subject to dynamic tensile conditions. The purpose of this study is to analyze the feasibility of using hollow circular rock samples in a dynamic direct tensile test and assess the specimen’s dynamic tensile mechanical properties. We used 26 hollow ring red sandstone specimens (HRRSSs) with different strain rates (53.86 s<sup>−1</sup> to 104.44 s<sup>−1</sup> in dynamic direct tensile tests using a Split Hopkinson Hollow Tensile Bar (SHHTB) test system. Five parameters, i.e., the initial elastic modulus, elastoplastic modulus, ideal elastic energy, ideal elastic coefficient, and energy dissipation ratio, were used to identify five stress stages during loading. The parameters were used to analyze the stiffness and energy evolution of the HRRSSs during loading. Numerical methods were utilized to simulate the damage evolution and destruction of the 12 specimens under dynamic tensile loading. The experimental and numerical results showed that the hollow ring structure was reliable and effective in determining the dynamic and direct tensile mechanical properties of rock materials and expanded the upper limit of the strain rate. The direct tensile failure of the HRRSSs with a low strain rate was due to the connection of multiple weak surfaces, whereas that of the HRRSSs with a high strain rate occurred due to a central stress concentration area that consumed a large amount of plastic energy by penetrating a strong surface. The proposed testing method, specimen type, and analytical models can be used to investigate the mechanical properties of rocks using dynamic direct tensile tests.
[154] Deng, Y. J.,Fang, X.,Bian, Y. L. ,等.Detwinning and twinning dynamics in pre-twinned Mg-3Al-1Zn alloy under uniaxial tension: a synchrotron-based multiscale study[J].Journal of Materials Science,2025,60 (13):6008-6021,SPRINGER
摘要：The effects of pre-twinning on deformation of a textured Mg-3Al-1Zn (AZ31) magnesium alloy are investigated with real-time, in situ synchrotron-based, mul-tiscale diagnostics. Samples are pre-compressed along the rolling direction (RD, perpendicular to the c-axis) to introduce {1012} twins, and then subjected to uni-axial tension along RD or the normal direction (ND, parallel to the c-axis). Bulk stress-strain curves (macroscale), strain fields (mesoscale) and X-ray diffraction patterns (microscale) are obtained simultaneously. The yield strength is enhanced by pre-twinning. For tension along RD, plastic deformation is primarily driven by detwinning, followed by prismatic slip. Conversely, for tension along the ND, plastic deformation is initially dominated by basal slip and subsequently by twin-ning. Additionally, stress relaxation occurs within the matrix upon twinning, and within the pre-compression-induced twins upon detwinning
[155] Yao, Yan,Wang, Ling,Li, Juan ,等.Recommendation of RILEM TC 281-CCC: Test method to determine the effect of uniaxial compression load and uniaxial tension load on concrete carbonation depth[J].Materials and Structures,2023,56 (7):1-9,SPRINGER
摘要：The combination of environmental actions and mechanical load, which most structural concretes are subjected to, has a synergetic effect on the durability of concrete. The comparative test conducted by RILEM TC 281-CCC WG4 demonstrated and quantified the effect of an applied mechanical load on carbonation performance of concrete with supplementary cementitious materials. Although the effect of loading on the chemical durability of concrete should be taken into consideration for the development of realistic service life predictions, they have been widely overlooked so far. This recommendation proposed by RILEM TC 281-CCC WG4 proposes a testing method for determining the effect of applied load on the carbonation rate of concrete. It specifies a detailed experimental procedure to determine the carbonation development of concretes subjected to compressive and tensile loads. Therefore this recommendation will support the consideration of such combined effects in design codes.
[156] Semenov, V.K.,Petrikov, E.K. .MATHEMATICAL MODEL OF THE SEMICRYSTALLINE POLYMER BEHAVIOR EXPOSED TO UNIAXIAL TENSION WITH THE DIFFERENT STRAIN RATES[J].Herald of the Bauman Moscow State Technical University, Series Natural Sciences,2025,Bauman Press
摘要：The article presents results of uniaxial tensile testing the 2NT11-9 polyethylene (PE-100) for a wide range of the loading rates at the relatively low strain (< 15–20 %). It provides relaxation curves for various stress levels to analyze the short-term (transient) creep processes. The relaxation observation time during testing was 1 hour. The paper studies dependence of the residual strains in the material on the total strains obtained under direct loading. To describe the obtained experimental data, it proposes the constitutive relations that take into account the material strain-induced softening and its creep while maintaining a hypothesis of the small (linear) strains. A method for determining numerical values of the material proposed model behavior parameters is described in detail. The model elastic parameter values are determined from the equilibrium tensile curve, and the viscous parameters are determined from the relaxation curves. The paper shows that the constructed model uses a single set of the numerical parameter values determined in this way, and makes it possible to describe satisfactorily the material uniaxial stress-strain curves at the various strain rates. In general, the presented material model behavior could be applied to analyze short-term strength of the products made from the semicrystalline polymers. © Author(s), 2025.
[157] Zhiqiang Hou,Qingqing Wu,Ruifu Yuan ,等.Mode I fracture toughness measurement based on direct tensile test: A case study on freeze-thaw damage of gray-white sandstone[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2026,145 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To address the limitations of conventional indirect loading methods in accurately characterizing the true Mode I fracture behavior of rocks, this study systematically investigates the evolution of Mode I fracture toughness of sandstone under freeze-thaw cycling using a direct tensile testing method with prefabricated cracks. By integrating acoustic emission (AE) and digital image correlation (DIC) techniques, the degradation of Mode I fracture toughness and its underlying microscale mechanisms were systematically analyzed. The results indicate that increases in freeze-thaw cycles lead to progressive reductions in saturated mass, wave velocity, tensile strength, and elastic modulus, reflecting continuous mechanical degradation. Mode I fracture toughness decreases monotonically with cycle number, with a cumulative reduction of approximately 24%, and shows a linear correlation with tensile strength. The cumulative ringing count of AE shows a significant downward trend with the increase in freeze-thaw cycles. DIC strain fields further demonstrate enhanced crack-tip deformation and intensified crack growth with increasing freeze-thaw cycles. Additionally, three-dimensional scanning of fracture surfaces shows increases in roughness, fractal dimension, and inclination angle, indicating more complex and irregular surface morphology after repeated cycling.
[158] Kaiying Wang,Xuan Zhou,Yiding Wu ,等.Tensile shear test of aramid fiber bundles: Fiber fracture modes[J].Materials Today Communications,2025,45 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Aramid fabrics and their composite laminate targets often exhibit shear failure phenomenon in ballistic scenarios. However, tensile failure is predominant in most application scenarios, suggesting the possibility of tensile-shear coupling phenomenon. To investigate the tensile-shear coupling failure and its mechanical behavior in aramid materials, the quasi-static tensile shear tests for aramid fiber bundles were designed based on numerical simulations. Additionally, the study explored the influence of different shear angles on the failure mechanical behavior of the fiber bundles. Through quasi-static tensile shear tests, damage and fracture of aramid fiber bundles were induced, and stress-strain curves for the aramid fiber bundles were yielded. Mechanical properties were analyzed by comparing with pure tensile tests. Furthermore, the damage and fracture morphology of individual fiber filaments were observed using a super-depth-of-field microscope and scanning electron microscope (SEM). The following conclusions were drawn: The tensile shear strength of aramid fiber bundles with three different fineness levels is higher than their pure tensile strength. Additionally, four different shear angles have minimal impact on the tensile shear strength of aramid fiber bundles across all four fineness levels. Among the three observed fracture modes in the quasi-static tensile shear tests of aramid fiber bundles, Tensile-Shear Coupling Failure I (fibrillation) was the most frequently observed, followed by Tensile-Shear Coupling Failure III, and lastly Tensile-Shear Coupling Failure II.
[159] Rizwan, Muhammad,Lu, Junxia,Ullah, Rafi ,等.In Situ Electron Backscatter Diffraction Study of Deformation Inhomogeneity under Uniaxial Tension of Laser Melting Deposited TA15 Alloy[J].Journal of Materials Engineering and Performance,2025,34 (13):12723-12737,SPRINGER
摘要：The discourse of the anisotropic mechanical properties of a unit-built additively manufactured component depends on its microstructural features and inhomogeneous distribution. This work explores the microstructure distribution and deformation inhomogeneity during uniaxial tension of a laser melting deposited TA15 near-alpha titanium alloy via advanced in situ secondary electron microscopy and electron backscattered diffraction characterization. Microscopically, two major regions can be distinguished in the overall microstructure, including a Widmanst & auml;tten (alpha w) region along the prior beta-grain boundary (GB) and a basketweave-alpha region within the columnar grains. These two different microstructural regions responded differently under the same tensile load conditions. In the early deformation stage, only conventional slip occurred in the basketweave-alpha region, whereas microscale shear bandings developed in both the basketweave-alpha and alpha w regions. As the deformation progressed, the strain was optimally accommodated by the basketweave-alpha region. Nevertheless, the largest strain accumulation occurred along the prior beta-GB because of a high misorientation angle, which resulted in the formation of cracks. Subsequently, the growth and propagation of the cracks along the prior beta-GB were relatively fast due to the weak obstruction caused by the low angle of misorientation in the alpha w region, resulting in early fracture of the sample.
[160] Jiru Zhong,Mingtao Yang,Xinfu He ,等.Improved approaches for small punch test to estimate the yield and ultimate tensile strength of metallic materials[J].Journal of Nuclear Materials,2025,604 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The small punch test (SPT) has been used extensively in nuclear industries to estimate mechanical properties changes of metals due to irradiation. This paper aims to propose more accurate approaches for SPT to estimate the yield and ultimate tensile strength of metals. The relationship between the SPT force and the yield and ultimate tensile strength of materials was studied by using finite element simulation data, and then three approaches were developed to determine tensile properties of materials by means of SPT. Force method and Slop method were developed to derive the ultimate tensile strength of metals from SPT curves, and Area method was proposed to determine the yield and ultimate tensile strength of metals. The accuracy of these approaches were verified by two candidate structural material for fusion reactors (CLF-1 steel and 9Cr-ODS steel) and other 10 structural materials. Area method gives more accurate evaluation on the yield strength of metals than the correlation method given in European standard on SPT. In addition, the developed approaches have advantages in estimating the tensile properties of low ductility metals.
[161] Qindong Xu,Zilong Li,Chen Xu ,等.Cyclic loading test and cracking simulation on high strength tensile-plate anchorage details in a cable-stayed girder[J].Structures,2025,81 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：High-strength tensile-plate anchorages have been increasingly adopted in cable-stayed girders for their structural simplicity and high safety redundancy. When transferring cable forces, two details, which are arc transitions and weld toes, on tensile plates experience significant stress concentrations and even fatigue risks. To address these, a cyclic loading test on a newly designed cost-effective specimen and parametric simulations based on an actual bridge project were conducted. XFEM-based crack propagation analyses were also executed. The 9-million-cycle loading test revealed that tensile strains mainly distributed along arc transitions in tangential directions and an increase tendency of hot-spot strain amplitude at weld toe can be observed at the final loading stage. In addition, a comparison between the test results and specifications indicated that these details had large fatigue safety redundancy. On the other side, the parametric cracking simulations shown that the stress intensity factor amplitudes at the crack tip under the opening mode (ΔK<sub>I</sub>) was sensitive to anchorage details, and the tensile plate thickness was the most decisive parameter among other structural dimensions. Furthermore, the fatigue crack at the geometrical center of arc transition or crack length reached over 5 mm at the weld toe could respectively make the ΔK<sub>I</sub> become larger or develop more obviously. Based on the above results, the XFEM-based simulation with an initial crack at a critical place presented that the following crack propagation was mainly governed by the opening cracking mode. The research outcomes can be suggestive for the tensile-plate anchorage optimization and performance improvement.
[162] S. Hong,J.M. Kim,M.C. Kim .Derivation of tensile properties and ductile to brittle transition temperature of reactor pressure vessel steels using small punch test[J].International Journal of Pressure Vessels and Piping,2026,222 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Small punch (SP) test has been standardized as ASTM E3205, but specific values of the empirical constants required to predict mechanical properties of metallic materials are not given. In this study, methods were developed to estimate yield strength, tensile strength, and transition temperatures and their applicability to irradiated RPV steels was assessed. A model was developed to estimate yield strength at arbitrary temperatures from room-temperature yield strength using exponential fitting, and empirical coefficients relating F<sub>e</sub> and F<sub>m</sub> to strength in accordance with ASTM were obtained as 0.39 for yield strength and 0.29 for ultimate tensile strength. In addition, comparison of SP transition temperatures derived from normalized SP fracture energy with DBTT and T<sub>41J</sub> yielded correlation factors of 0.37 and 0.42, respectively. Furthermore, a normalized fracture displacement parameter was newly defined to describe SP transition behavior, and the resulting transition curve closely mimicked Charpy transition behavior, enabling the T<sub>41J</sub> prediction.
[163] Xingzhan Yuan,Shi Hong,Jing Wang ,等.A model to evaluate the ductile-to-brittle transition of bcc-W based on small tensile test and dislocation characterization[J].Journal of Alloys and Compounds,2025,1011 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, we propose a model to evaluate the ductile-to-brittle transition (DBT) of W based alloy using small tensile test and dislocation density measurement. The new model is built upon the high correlation between the DBT and the dislocation multiplication. Compared the measured results from the typical testing methods such as small tensile test, three-point bending test, it reveals that the new model is close to the bending test results. Interestingly, the equivalent transition temperature (ETT) of W-Y<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> alloy measured by three-point bending test and the new model is lower than that of pure W. The effect of grain boundary and Y<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> particles on DBT were discussed, and the lower transition temperature of W-Y<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> alloy is attributed to the easier dislocation multiplication near grain boundary as well as the increase of small angle grain boundary.
[164] Hamid Reza Karimi,M.R.M. Aliha,Amir Mousavi ,等.Direct and indirect test techniques for measuring the tensile strength of brittle materials, an experimental study[J].Structures,2025,82 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To address challenges associated with measuring the tensile strength of brittle materials, a comparative analysis was conducted on several specimens and a new test specimen. The new test method is a symmetrical bend disc (SBD) that can be prepared from in-field cores. Evaluations were performed employing direct tension, Brazilian disc, and three-point bending beam specimens. The samples were made of cement paste, a foundational construction material. The findings indicated that the tensile strength values derived from the direct tension test yielded the lowest estimates (1.93 ± 0.2 MPa), whereas those from the three-point bending beam were 2.71 ± 0.05 MPa, and those from the Brazilian disc ranged from 2.02 to 2.33 MPa. In comparison, the tensile strength recorded for the SBD ranged from 2.01 to 2.39 MPa. Analysis shows that specimen geometry and loading configuration have a significant effect on the measured tensile strength, so that by adjusting the thickness-to-diameter (<em>t</em>/<em>D</em>=0.3) and span-to-diameter (<em>S</em>/<em>D</em>=0.8) ratios, the exact value of tensile strength measured by direct tensile strength can be obtained. In these cases, the diameter value (100 and 150 mm in this study) also affects the results. After the experimental tests, numerical simulations were undertaken to investigate the stress distributions and fracture patterns characteristic of the specimens. Results showed that, compared with BD as the standard test method, which exhibits significant gradients in compressive-tensile strengths resulting in high coefficients of variation (about 10 %), while SBD exhibits lower gradients and lower coefficients of variation (about 4 %).
[165] Thomas J. Barrett,Marilyn L. Minus .Nosé-Hoover Integrators at-a-Glance: Barostat Integration Has a Demonstrable Effect on Uniaxial Tension Results of Solid Materials[J].Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation,2025,21 (2):517-529,American Chemical Society
摘要：Molecular dynamics is a popular method for evaluating the tensile stress behaviors of many nanomaterials; however, few manuscripts include their thermostat and barostat damping parameters along with their methods. Here, we illustrate the demonstrable effect that barostat integration has on system dynamics during uniaxial testing under a Nosé-Hoover scheme. Three systems are tested: a 2D graphene sheet, a 3D continuous aluminum volume, and a 3D discontinuous polyvinyl alcohol volume. Isobaric–isothermal (NPT) and isochoric-isothermal (NVT) integration methods are intrinsically related, with high NPT barostat damping parameters converging on the NVT system. As a result, slight variations in barostat damping parameters may elicit different stress responses with higher damping parameters directly linked to increased levels of triaxial strain.
[166] Gu, Nan,Luo, Xiaoliang,Zhang, Wen ,等.Characterizing the Fracture Forming Limit Curve from Shear to Uniaxial Tension in Ultrathin Sheet Metals Using Specimens with Cutouts[J].SSRN,2023,SSRN
摘要：The fracture forming limit curves of ultrathin sheets from pure shear to uniaxial tension were characterized in this study under uniaxial tensile test (UTT) and Nakajima test (NT) conditions by using tension–shear specimens with different cutout offsets. Considering deformation concentration at the edge of the tension–shear deformation region in conventional tension–shear specimens with cutouts, a new tension–shear specimen with deliberately designed cutoff contour in terms of cutout offset was proposed. It was numerically validated that a more pronounced strain localization can be obtained at the center of the tension–shear deformation region. On this basis, tension–shear deformation tests were experimentally conducted under UTT and NT conditions on three ultrathin sheets (0.25 mm interstitial–free steel, 0.255 mm aluminum killed steel, and 0.3 mm pre–plated nickel aluminum killed steel). The onset of fracture in the tension–shear specimens was determined based on the strain evolution in different regions. The results prove that the fracture forming limit for any strain path between pure shear and uniaxial tension can be correctly obtained by combining the optimized tension–shear specimens with the proposed fracture onset identification method. The prediction accuracies of three ductile fracture criteria (MMC, DF2014, and Hu-DFC) from pure shear to uniaxial tension were evaluated using the determined shear fracture forming limits. © 2023, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[167] 魏雅璇,吕沙沙,李正操 ,等.基于小冲杆试验技术评估充氢锆合金材料的拉伸性能[J].稀有金属材料与工程,2024,53 (6):1601-1607
摘要：对Zr-4以及其它2种新型锆合金材料在室温、315℃条件下进行常规拉伸试验,结合计算结果分析了成分差异造成的沉淀相改变,提出了析出强化机制对于锆合金性能提升的重要意义。首次利用小冲杆试验对锆合金原样的力学性能进行测试,该工作确定了常规拉伸试验与小冲杆试验结果之间的经验公式中与锆合金材料本身相关的系数数值,验证了小冲杆试验用于锆合金拉伸性能评估的可行性。利用气相渗氢法在400℃对Zr-4以及其它2种新型锆合金进行充氢处理,并利用小冲杆试验对锆合金充氢试样的力学性能进行测试。结果表明,充氢锆合金在载荷-位移曲线的塑性失稳阶段出现“平台区”特殊现象。对该现象进行探究,用金相分析表征了氢化物的形貌特征并对其含量进行了定量估算,推测氢化物与基体断裂韧性上的差异、氢化物相特殊的长链构型以及强取向性与这一现象有着重要关联。
[168] Ma, Jiaxu,Li, Weixian,Wu, Sijin ,等.Elastic modulus measurement of quartz glass using digital speckle pattern interferometry based on tensile test[J].Measurement Science and Technology,2025,36 (6):065207-065207,IOP Publishing Ltd
摘要：Tensile tests are a standard method to evaluate the elastic modulus by measuring the deformation, usually by an extensometer, at a certain stress within the elastic limit for metal materials. However, this method is rarely used for brittle materials, like quartz glass, because the elastic deformation of brittle materials is several micrometers and is too tiny to be precisely measured by extensometers. Since full-field digital speckle pattern interferometry (DSPI) has a high measurement resolution of tens of nanometers, an elastic modulus measurement method of quartz glass based on tensile testing using DSPI is presented and analyzed. An in-plane displacement optical path of DSPI is set up to obtain the deformation of quartz glass in the tensile test, and then the elastic modulus is calculated. The influence of the tensile load and measurement span on the elastic modulus is analyzed, and the error in fringe direction is corrected. With a reasonable load and measurement span, the experimental results show that the relative error of the elastic modulus can be reduced to 1.18% after error correction.
[169] Fontaine, Clemence,Corre, Thomas,Perriere, Loic ,等.A Single Tensile Test for TRIP-TWIP Mechanisms High-Throughput Mapping in a Compositionally Graded Ti-Nb Alloy[J].Metallurgical and Materials Transactions A,2025,56 (11):4737-4743,SPRINGER
摘要：Compositional boundaries of transformation-induced plasticity and mechanical twinning (TRIP/TWIP) activity in the Ti-Nb system are determined using a chemically graded sample containing 18-30 at. pct Nb, prepared via diffusion couple. Deformation mechanisms triggered by a single tensile test are analyzed by EBSD and EDX. TRIP activity is resolved in the range 22-25 at. pct Nb and TWIP activity in the range 23-28 at. pct Nb, showing the possibility to chemically map deformation mechanisms with a single tensile test.
[170] Elsayed, Ahmed,Gonzalez, Diego,Yakushina, Evgenia .Development of the Forming Limit Diagram for AA6016-T4 at Room Temperature Using Uniaxial Tension of Notched Samples and a Biaxial Test[J].Crystals,2023,13 (7),MDPI
摘要：Within the framework of the formability limit assessment in sheet metal forming, testing of notched tensile samples coupled with digital image correlation (DIC) has been analysed as an alternative to overcome the implications of Nakajima testing in relation to times of test preparation, cost of the equipment, presence of friction, and amount of material required for the test. Additionally, the complications of the Nakajima testing at elevated temperatures need to also be considered. In this work, specific notched sample geometries have been investigated to accurately identify the forming limits of Aluminium alloy AA6016 in T4 condition. Once the notched geometry had been defined, experimental tensile testing of the samples coupled with DIC technology allowed us to identify the formability limits of interest. Finally, a comparison at room temperature with the conventional Nakajima testing was performed experimentally. Two different methodologies for strain limit evaluation in notched samples have been investigated in the present analysis. The first one is called a position-dependent method and is based on the inverse best-fit parabola of the "bell-shaped curve", which is used in the conventional Nakajima test. The second approach referred to a time-dependent method and is based on the strain rate evaluation at the necking zone. This strain-rate-dependent method, which works in combination with DIC measurements, was found to be more accurate to determine the necking limits than the previous one;in addition, it also provides more accurate information for the safe zone of forming.
[171] Lai, Yeh-Hung,Coms, Frank D.,Gittleman, Craig S. ,等.The Effect of Differential Pressure Driven Tensile Stress on Chemical Degradation of Perfluorosulfonic Acid Membranes Using a Hydrogen Peroxide Vapor Flow Cell Test[J].Journal of The Electrochemical Society,2025,172 (2):024504-024504,ELECTROCHEMICAL SOC INC
摘要：A modified ex situ H2O2 vapor flow cell test has been developed to study the effect of tensile stress on the chemical degradation of perfluorosulfonic acid membranes. The test cells compose of two flowfield plates with a membrane sandwiched in between. A N2 gas stream with higher pressure is directed through one side while a lower pressure 30% RH N2 stream with 175 ppm of H2O2 vapor flows on the other. The test offers advantages which include the ability to test as-received production membranes utilizing the residual trace iron in the membrane as catalyst to generate hydroxyl radicals, good control of H2O2 concentration, and versatile control of test conditions. While applying various tensile stresses from zero to the near creep-rupture strength of Nafion (R) N211, we measure the fluoride emission rates (FER) at 90 degrees C/30%RH of both N211 and a chemically stabilized and mechanically reinforced state-of-the-art (SOA) 12 mu m membrane. The FER of N211 is 10-15 times higher than that of the SOA membrane, showing the effectiveness of using cerium for chemical mitigation. The result also shows that the tensile stress expected during fuel cell operation has insignificant effect on the membrane chemical degradation rates compared with the effect of RH.
[172] Wang, Pengyu,Wei, Ziqi,Mao, Pingli ,等.Nucleation and Growth Analysis of {10-12} Tensile Twin in TA2 Alloy by In-Situ Tensile Test[J].Metals and Materials International,2025,31 (8):2214-2227,KOREAN INST METALS MATERIALS
摘要：The nucleation and growth of {10-12} tensile twins in TA2 pure titanium during in-situ tensile test are explored by electron backscattered diffraction (EBSD). The dynamic process of twin growth can be clearly revealed by observe the evolution of microstructure at the same position with cumulative strains increases. According to the statistics and analysis of experimental data, it is found that the Schmid factor (SF) plays an important role during the nucleation and growth of twins. The twin variants with high SF are easy to be activated. However, approximately 18% of twins not satisfy the SF law, have low SF, nucleation and growth occur during deformation. In addition, the strain compatibility between tensile twins and various deformation modes in adjacent grains are analyzed by geometric compatibility factor. For tensile twin nucleation and growth, the shear strain generated by various deformation modes in adjacent grains plays an important role. The shear strain generated by tensile twins and pyramidal slip are beneficial to the twin nucleation, however, pyramidal slip is not conducive to the twin growth.
[173] Teltayev, Bagdat,Iskakbayev, Alibay,Aitbayev, Yerbol ,等.Regularities of Deformation and Destruction of Asphalt Concrete Under Uniaxial Tension[M].AIP Conference Proceedings,2025,3265 (1),American Institute of Physics
摘要：The experimentally established patterns of deformation and destruction of dense fine-grained asphalt concrete type B, prepared using oxidized bitumen grade BND 100/130, during creep under uniaxial tension are presented. Deformation models for different stages of creep are proposed. © 2025 American Institute of Physics Inc.. All rights reserved.
[174] Sang, Lijun,Lu, Junxia,Cheng, Xiaopeng ,等.In Situ EBSD Study of Deformation Behavior at Grain Scale of Inconel 718 Alloy During Tensile Test at 650 °C[J].Materials,2025,18 (9):1934,MDPI
摘要：In order to clarify the deformation mechanism of Inconel 718 (IN718) alloy at the grain scale during tensile deformation, the deformation behaviors of IN718 alloy were investigated at 650 degrees C using an in situ electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) tensile testing method. The evolution of grain morphology, crystallographic orientation, activated slip systems, grain boundaries evolution, and strain-induced misorientation were systematically analyzed during the tensile test. The results showed that the grains were elongated along the tensile direction, and the grain boundaries also became significantly curved. Meanwhile, the EBSD studies illustrated that the changes in local misorientation within individual grains were non-uniform and generally began at the grain boundaries. The low-angle grain boundaries (LAGBs) were first formed near the high-angle grain boundaries (HAGBs) and gradually expanded into the interior of the grains. The activation of the slip system and the Schmid factor were characterized and calculated based on the slip traces on the deformed grain surface. The evolution of local strain within the grains was evidenced by a kernel average misorientation (KAM) map. Finally, the plastic deformation mechanism at the grain scale was discussed in detail based on our experimental results.
[175] Manali Sarkar,Arindam Basu .Evaluation of ring test with reference to deformation rate and specimen geometry in assessing the tensile behaviors of granite[J].International Journal of Rock Mechanics and Mining Sciences,2025,185 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Ring test for indirect tensile strength measurements utilizes disc specimens with a hole at the center of the disc. Such specimens are found to limit the stresses at the specimen-platen contact and transfer the tensile stress to the upper- and lower-hole boundaries in ring specimens. Researchers observed that the tensile strength of a ring specimen tends to decrease as the ratio of the hole-radius to the disc-radius (ρ) increases. However, there has been no research on how the tensile strength derived from ring specimens varies when loaded under different quasi-static strain rates or deformation rates. The strain analysis in case of ring tests also does not seem to have gained attention. In this study, ring specimens of Malanjkhand granite (India) with varying ρ (0.13, 0.17, 0.21 and 0.25) were quasi-statically loaded at 0.5 mm/min, 1.5 mm/min and 5.5 mm/min corresponding to strain rates of 1.75 × 10<sup>−4</sup> s<sup>−1</sup>, 5.26 × 10<sup>−4</sup> and 1.93 × 10<sup>−3</sup> s<sup>−1</sup>, respectively. The combined effect of the deformation rate and specimen geometry (ρ) on the indirect tensile strength and deformation behavior was investigated. The Ring Tensile Strength (RTS) is found to be higher than the Brazilian Tensile Strength (BTS). RTS shows dependency on both the geometry of the ring specimen as well as the deformation rate. The tensile Tangent Deformation Modulus (D<sub>v</sub>) and the ratio of the horizontal strain to vertical strain, coined as Ring Strain Ratio (RSR), were estimated in this study from the tensile stress and vertical-horizontal strain data. A numerical finite element analysis was also performed in Abaqus to observe the stress distribution in both ring and Brazilian discs, where the results were found to be broadly conformable.
[176] Manlin Huang,Jinyuan Wu,Yihan Wang ,等.A probabilistic creep damage model for studying the dispersion of small punch creep test and uniaxial tensile creep test[J].International Journal of Pressure Vessels and Piping,2026,222, Part 1 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Creep is a dominant failure mode for high-temperature structural components and is inherently characterized by pronounced scatter. However, creep constitutive models capable of describing probabilistic creep rupture remain limited. In this work, the microvoid growth mechanism and statistical distribution characteristics are incorporated into the creep damage accumulation process, then a probabilistic creep damage model is developed. Combined with a Monte Carlo simulation strategy, the proposed model is applied to investigate the scatter in small punch creep tests (SPCT) and uniaxial tensile creep tests of P91 steel. It is found that the 95 % confidence interval of the rupture life predicted for SPCT agrees closely with the experimentally measured 95 % confidence interval from the European Union Joint Research Centre Materials Database engineering materials database, demonstrating that this model can effectively quantify the uncertainty in SPCT rupture life. In addition, the model successfully reproduces the statistical difference in scatter between the two test types, showing that the 95 % confidence interval width of SPCT rupture life is approximately 1.3 times that of uniaxial tensile creep tests data. The proposed probabilistic creep damage model and the associated simulation methodology provide a new theoretical tool for creep data analysis and life prediction, and are of significant engineering value for ensuring highly reliable service of high-temperature components.
[177] Akhunova, A. Kh.,Murzaev, R. T. .Deformation behaviour of silicene with dislocation dipoles under uniaxial tension[J].Letters on Materials,2025,15 (3):207-212,RUSSIAN ACAD SCIENCES, INST METALS SUPERPLASTICITY PROBLEMS
摘要：Silicene, as a silicon analogue of graphene, has attracted increasing attention due to its combination of physical and chemical properties, making it a relevant material for flexible electronics and nanotechnology. In this study, molecular dynamics simulations were used to study the effect of dislocation dipoles on the deformation behavior and mechanical properties of silicene under uniaxial tension. The wrinkle formation during tension was analyzed. Dislocation dipoles with different arm lengths were considered. A comparative analysis with graphene, the benchmark two-dimensional material, was also performed. The results showed that the strength of silicene smoothly decreases with increasing defect size. In contrast, graphene exhibits a sharp drop in strength when a critical defect size is reached;thereafter, further increases in the defect size have little effect on its mechanical properties. At the same time, the fracture strain of both materials depends only weakly on defects due to their ability to form wrinkles, which redistribute stress throughout the structure. The simulation results revealed differences in the wrinkle morphology of graphene and silicene, which are determined by their atomic structures. The planar structure of graphene forms uniform one-dimensional ripples, whereas the buckled structure of silicene leads to the formation of inhomogeneous wrinklons. Unlike graphene, with transition from a flat to a wrinkled state and from a wrinkled to a flat state again during deformation, the wrinkles in silicene persist until failure. These results are important for studying the strength and defect influence in two-dimensional materials, as well as for assessing their potential applications in flexible electronics.
[178] Zhenyu Tao,Minghong Qiu,Kay Wille ,等.Effects of specimen thickness and fiber length on tensile and cracking behavior of UHPFRC: Uniaxial tensile test and micromechanical modeling[J].Cement and Concrete Composites,2025,155 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study aims to investigate the effects of specimen thickness and fiber length on the tensile and cracking behaviors of ultra-high-performance fiber-reinforced concrete (UHPFRC). To this end, a uniaxial tensile test was conducted with three specimen thicknesses (30, 50, and 100 mm) and two fiber lengths (13 and 20 mm), and the fiber orientation, dispersion and specimen void were quantitatively evaluated based on image recognition. The test results indicated that fiber orientation was improved with the decreased specimen thickness and increased fiber length. Meanwhile, the initial cracking and peak stress, capacity to limit cracking were enhanced with the decreased specimen thickness. A modified prediction model considering the wall effect, flattening and squeezing effect was developed to predict the probability density function <em>p</em>(<em>θ</em>) of fiber orientation angle. Additionally, the uniformity factor <em>μ</em><sub>2</sub> was introduced to predict crack number, and the relationship between the <em>μ</em><sub>2</sub> and parameter <em>ψ</em> = (<em>V</em><sub><em>f</em></sub> × <em>l</em><sub><em>f</em></sub>/<em>d</em><sub><em>f</em></sub>)/<em>t</em> was determined. Furthermore, a model was developed to convert the main crack width into uniaxial tensile strain. All models and relationships were validated using test data. A micromechanical model that considered the predicted <em>p</em>(<em>θ</em>) and conversion model was established to predict the uniaxial tensile response of UHPFRC, which was also successfully validated using test data.
[179] Serhiy Fedak,Oleh Yasniy,Sofia Fedak ,等.Deformation patterns of AMg6 alloy under conditions of uniaxial tension in the areas of jump strain hardening[J].Procedia Structural Integrity,2026,81 :305-309,Elsevier Science
摘要：This research involves a detailed study of the deformation parameters of the AMg6 alloy in uniaxial tension, with particular attention to the material’s strengthening regions. A specific dependency was identified that quantifies the change in deformation magnitude immediately following the jump-like increments caused by the fracture of the dispersed phases of the alloy. The paper introduces a practical method for incorporating these observed patterns into a predictive model of the general deformation behavior of AMg6 alloy, using a diagram of internal dispersed particle distribution.
[180] Andrés Utrera,Álvaro Navarrete,Alejandro Bezmalinovic ,等.A deep neural network surrogate for fast mechanical parameter identification using the ring tensile test[J].Materials & Design,2026,263 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This work introduces a deep neural network (DNN) surrogate model designed to accelerate mechanical parameter identification using the ring tensile test. The surrogate is trained on finite element simulations of the ring tensile test using an anisotropic constitutive model, serving as an efficient approximation of the forward problem. Its main application is the batch characterization of small aortic tissue samples, where specimen availability and computational cost limit traditional inverse analyses. Validation against experimental data from thoracic aorta samples of Wistar rats shows strong predictive capability, with initial correlation coefficients of 0.73 or higher across all identified parameters. The DNN surrogate provides accurate initial estimates that can be refined through finite element-based inverse analysis, allowing to include the residual stress effects in vessel mechanics. While training requires a substantial computational cost, the framework enables rapid, high-throughput characterization and can be generalized to other non-standard mechanical tests involving complex stress–strain states.
[181] Hyeon-Gyu Min,Jun-Hyub Park .Study on effect of gage length and measurement position on strain at tensile test using in-situ SEM test and digital image correlation[J].Measurement,2026,278 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In a standard tensile test, the strain is calculated from displacement over the central gage length of a specimen under the assumption of material homogeneity. However, for thin-film specimens with thicknesses below a few micrometers, this assumption is no longer valid, which significantly affects the reliability evaluation of thin-film materials and structures. In this study, copper thin-film specimens with a gage length of 1000 <span class="math"><math><mrow is="true"><mi is="true" mathvariant="normal">μ</mi><mi is="true" mathvariant="normal">m</mi></mrow></math></span> and a thickness of 5 <span class="math"><math><mrow is="true"><mi is="true" mathvariant="normal">μ</mi><mi is="true" mathvariant="normal">m</mi></mrow></math></span> were tested under in-situ SEM tensile testing integrated with Digital Image Correlation (DIC). This setup was used to analyze the influence of gage length and measurement position on local strain behavior. Local strains were quantified under various gage lengths and measurement positions to analyze their influence on the overall measured strain. A distinct spatial non-uniformity in the strain distribution was observed. Even for the same gage length, the strain varied significantly depending on the measurement position. In particular, regions near fractures exhibited larger local strain, and even at the same position. In addition, the local strain differed depending on the gage length. These findings experimentally demonstrate that strain localization and non-uniformity in the strain field have a significant effect on the overall measured strain, thus highlighting the limitations of conventional strain based material evaluation for thin film.
[182] Jie Wang,Zhuorui Wu,Shuxin Deng ,等.The dynamic tensile strength prediction model and tensile behavior of concrete considering pores based on the impact splitting tensile test[J].Journal of Building Engineering,2025,104 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：There are thousands of pores in concrete, which affect the tensile mechanical behavior and strength prediction model under impact load. To determine the effects of the porosity and pore size distribution (PSD) on the dynamic mechanical behavior of concrete under various impact loading velocities, the rate effect term is added to the cohesive element model (CEM) of ABAQUS, and pores are generated in the concrete mesostructure model. The rate-dependent CEM established can effectively solve the problem of asymmetric failure under the impact splitting tensile test (ISTT) by using CEM of ABAQUS. Results indicate the rate effect of concrete increases as PSD increases and decreases with the increase of porosity. The dynamic strength prediction model, which consists of porosity and PSD, is proposed. Concrete's dynamic tensile strength (DTS) is significantly affected by its porosity and PSD, and the tensile strength predicted by this prediction model is very consistent with concrete's tensile strength. With increasing loading rate, the damage area of the loading end of the concrete specimen increases. The pores play little role in determining the final damage mode of concrete specimens under ISTT. These findings of this study contribute to the understanding of the influencing mechanism for pore on concrete's dynamic tensile mechanical behavior, which can be employed to optimize the design of concrete structures.
[183] Wang, Yun-Long,Yang, Ben-Gao,Zhang, Dong ,等.EFFECT OF MICROWAVE IRRADIATION DIRECTION ON TENSILE PROPERTIES OF GRANITE BRAZILIAN DISC TEST[J].Thermal Science,2025,29 (2A):1089-1094,VINCA INST NUCLEAR SCI
摘要：Investigating the tensile properties of rock under varying microwave irradiation directions is essential for understanding the mechanical behavior ofmicrowave-in-duced rock breaking. A continuous-discrete method is employed to analyze the tensile properties ofgranite disc samples under three different microwave irradiation directions. The results indicate the variable tensile properties of granite Brazilian disc under different microwave irradiation directions.
[184] Jie Wang,Shuxin Deng,Mingyang Wang ,等.The effects of random elliptic pore on the tensile behavior of concrete based on the splitting tensile test of 2D simulations[J].Construction and Building Materials,2025,483 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The pore is a weak area of concrete and plays a significant role in determining the tensile behavior of concrete. This study focuses on the effects of the shape, the size distribution of pore, the space distribution of pore and porosity on the tensile strength of concrete and the evolution of concrete. A four-phase 2D mesostructure concrete model containing coarse aggregate, mortar, elliptic pore and interfacial transition zone (ITZ) is developed to predict the mechanical behavior of concrete based on the splitting tensile test. The discretization method is proposed to effectively generate ellipse pores in the mesostructure concrete model. 2D mesoscale simulations indicate that concrete’s tensile strength decreases as the ratio of ellipse pore’s major axes and minor axes (ratio-PMM) increases. There is a relation between the tensile strength and the pore size distribution when ratio-PMM is 2 (E2). Based on the multifractal theory, the tensile strength of E2 is positively correlated with the uniformity of elliptic pore space’s distribution. The macro-cracks occur at pore or ITZ and the pore, and the pore plays an increasingly important role in the initiation of macrocracks in concrete as its porosity increases. These findings of this study contribute to the understanding of the influencing mechanism for ellipse pore on concrete’s tensile mechanical behavior, which can be employed to optimize the design of concrete structures.
[185] Yanli Song,Long Chen,Chuanchuan Hao ,等.Deformation behavior and its mechanism of Al–Zn–Mg–Cu alloys in different heat treatment states under electrically-assisted uniaxial tension[J].Journal of Materials Research and Technology,2025,36 :4162-4185,Elsevier Science
摘要：Electrically-assisted manufacturing has proven to be an efficient process in improving formability for metal alloys. However, there are relatively few studies on the mechanism of the deformation behavior of Al–Zn–Mg–Cu alloys in different heat-treated states under electrically-assisted quasi-static uniaxial tension (EAT). This study presents the effects of EAT on the mechanical properties and microstructure of materials. The results showed that under suitable EAT parameters, the true strain of AA 7075-T6 is reduced by about 12.04 %, while the true strain of AA 7075-O is significantly increased by about 78.79 %. The electrical current reduces dislocation density, refines the recrystallized grains and increases the Cube texture content in AA 7075-O. From thermodynamic and kinetic perspectives, the athermal effects induced by electrical current are beneficial in promoting the dynamic dissolution of the metastable phase in AA 7075-T6 and the local dynamic precipitation of the GPII region in AA 7075-O, respectively. The stress drops and strain hardening behaviors were analyzed using the Orowan and the dislocation density strengthening equation. And, a mechanism for the improved plasticity of EAT in AA7075-O was revealed.
[186] Liu Junjie,Huang Xingmin,Yao Xin ,等.Plasticity instability behavior of hot rolled medium-Mn steel after inter-critical quenching during uniaxial tension[J].材料工程,2024,52 (12):134-142,BEIJING INST AERONAUTICAL MATERIALS-BIAM
摘要：with digital image correlation (DIC ), infrared thermal imaging (IRT ), electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD ), and microhardness distribution, the plastic instability behavior of mediumMn steel processed by inter-critical quenching during uniaxial tension was analyzed. The results show that the strain-induced martensite transformation of experimental steel mainly occurs in the early stage of uniaxial tension. The Portevin-Le Chatelier(PLC)bands are obviously formed and propagated during this process, accompanied by thermal fluctuations. Moreover, the type of the PLC bands has transitioned from type A to type B and then to type A. The PLC bands are formed by the interaction between dislocation multiplication and interstitial solute atoms, i.e., dynamic strain aging (DSA ). In the early stage of deformation, the dislocation will preferentially move to the low-density dislocation area, i. e. , propagate unidirectionally along the axis (the type A band). Then, in the middle stage, the dislocation multiplication and initial interaction leads to the jumping (type B) PLC band formation. Finally, dislocation density and interactions increase in the later stage of deformation, leading to the formation of the type A PLC band again.
[187] Zhang, Xiaochen,Shen, Chao,Zhang, Xuesen ,等.Uniaxial tensile test integrated design considering mould-fixture for UHPC[J].Advances in Computational Design,2022,7 (4):281-295,TECHNO-PRESS
摘要：Tensile property is one of the excellent properties of ultra-high performance concrete (UHPC), and uniaxial tensile test is an important and challenging mechanical performance test of UHPC. Traditional uniaxial tensile tests of concrete materials have inherent defects such as initial eccentricity, which often lead to cracks and failure in non-test zone, and affect the testing accuracy of tensile properties of materials. In this paper, an original integrated design scheme of mould and end fixture is proposed, which achieves seamless matching between the tension end of specimen and the test fixture, and minimizes the cumulative eccentricity caused by the difference in the matching between the tension end of specimen and the local stress concentration at the end. The stress analysis and optimization design are carried out by finite element method. The curve transition in the end of specimen is preferred compared to straight line transition. The rationality of the new integrated design is verified by uniaxial tensile test of strain hardening UHPC, in which the whole stress-strain curve was measured, including the elastic behavior before cracking, strain hardening behavior after cracking and strain softening behavior.
[188] Tang, Huaizi,Hu, Yanchun,Lang, Lin ,等.Effect of contact angle on the determination of tensile strength in the Brazilian test[J].Archive of Applied Mechanics,2025,95 (9):1-14,SPRINGER
摘要：Assessing the validity of tensile strength determination in the Brazilian test is a classical problem in fracture mechanics. According to reports, the Brazilian splitting strength is generally lower than the direct tensile strength in most cases, while in a minority of cases it is higher. Based on the analytical solution of the stress field in an uncracked disc under parabolic loading and Griffith's fracture criterion, this paper proposes a novel modified formula for calculating tensile strength sigma t that accounts for the influence of the load contact angle. Additionally, according to the principles of error analysis, an error transfer function is derived to evaluate the effect of measurement error on contact angle. Finally, the modified formula presented in this paper is applied to calculate the tensile strength of sandstone under both flat-platen and curved-jaw loading conditions. The results are then compared with those obtained using a classical formula. The theoretical analysis shows that the classical formula underestimates the tensile strength of materials at small contact angles, whereas it overestimates the tensile strength at large contact angles. Additionally, measurement errors in the contact angle have a certain influence on the determination of sigma t. For the case of contact semi-angle gamma >= 10 degrees with measurement error Delta gamma <= 1 degrees, the tensile strength determination error remains below 5%. The experimental results show that the classical formula yields lower tensile strength values for sandstone under flat-platen loading compared to curved-jaw loading, whereas the proposed modified formula demonstrates excellent consistency between both loading configurations. The modified formula accounts for the dual-aspect influence of contact angle on tensile strength determination: (i) qualitative-governing the fracture initiation position of the disc, and (ii) quantitative-modulating the magnitude distribution of internal stress compone
[189] Taredi, Abdul Azim,Ab Patar, Mohd Nor Azmi,Mahmud, Jamaluddin .The Effects of Fibre Angle Orientation to the Failure Behaviour and Natural Frequencies of Graphite/Epoxy Laminates Under Uniaxial Tension[M].Lecture Notes in Mechanical Engineering,2025,Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH
摘要：This paper investigates the effects of fibre angle orientation on the failure behaviour and natural frequencies of Graphite/Epoxy laminates under uniaxial tension. The laminate under consideration consisted of 24 layers, with the layup of [θ4, 0, − θ4]s and fibre angle, θ, was varied from 0° to 90°. The minimum load for layer failure was determined using Maximum Stress Theory, while natural frequencies were also measured. Numerical validations confirmed the finite element models’ accuracy. Results showed that increasing the fibre angle from 0° to 90° decreased laminate strength (1450 to 257 MPa) and increased Mode 3 natural frequencies (1053 to 1640 Hz), with Modes 1 and 2 behaving differently. This study enhances understanding of the relationship between failure behaviour and natural frequencies in composite laminates. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2025.
[190] Yang, Jian,Luo, Junwei,Xu, Gang ,等.Multi-Scale Study on Steel Fiber Reinforcement Mechanism and Uniaxial Tension Constitutive Relationship of Uhpfrc Containing Stone Powder[J].SSRN,2023,SSRN
摘要：Ultra-high performance fiber reinforcement concrete containing stone powder (SP-UHPFRC) is a kind of ultra-high performance fiber reinforcement concrete (UHPFRC) prepared by using stone powder waste from stone processing instead of quartz powder. It can reduce the waste of land resources and environmental pollution caused by stone powder accumulation in corresponding areas. This paper studies the steel fiber reinforcement mechanism and uniaxial tension constitutive relation of UHPFRC containing stone powder (SP-UHPFRC) from several scales. In the micro-scale, comparing the results of SEM and XRD of SP-UHPFRC and UHPFRC. it can be found that the influence of adding stone powder in the micro-scale of SP-UHPFRC is mainly manifested in the change of microstructure. After adding stone powder, the hydration products adsorb on the stone powder to form particles, which leads to a decrease in the compactness of the matrix, and the spalling phenomenon of the matrix is more obvious when the steel fiber is pulled out. In the meso-scale, the pullout test of steel fibers with different aspect ratio from the SP-UHPFRC matrix was tested. The results shown that as the aspect ratio of steel fiber increases, both the maximum pullout stress and the tensile strength utilization ratio of steel fiber increase as well. In the macro-small-scale, 18 groups of SP-UHPFRC uniaxial tensile test specimens with 3 kinds of aspect ratios and 6 volume fractions of steel fiber were designed. The effects of steel fiber on the uniaxial tensile properties and constitutive relationship were investigated. The SP-UHPFRC uniaxial tensile constitutive relationship equation including the fiber reinforcement factor is proposed and verified. In the macro-large-scale, the applicability of the uniaxial tensile constitutive relationship in macro-large-scale analysis is discussed by comparing the cracking load of finite element simulation established by using the uniaxial tension constitutive relationship proposed i
[191] Kaliciak, Maciej,Uhl, Tadeusz,Nowak, Marek .Convolutional Neural Networks for Estimation of Uniaxial Tensile Test Equivalent Properties from Small Punch Test[J].Materials,2025,18 (23):5276,MDPI
摘要：The Small Punch Test (SPT) has been developed as a small sample technique for the evaluation of mechanical properties of structural materials. However, the SPT is subject to systematic biases, resulting in inaccurate estimates of Uniaxial Tensile Test (UTT) properties. In this study, an experimental approach has been adopted to investigate the potential of neural networks to predict UTT-equivalent behavior from SPT measurements. An experimental database containing paired SPT and UTT data has been prepared for three boiler steels (10H2M, 13HMF, and 15HM) in both new and service-degraded states. Convolutional neural networks (CNN) have been trained and evaluated for curve-to-curve prediction. The working hypothesis is that CNN models, by exploiting local curve features, are capable of reducing the systematic bias inherent to SPT, generating estimates of UTT properties with precision comparable to conventional UTT measurements. Consistent with trends in applied deep learning, the results confirm the robustness of convolutional architectures. In general, the findings provide strong evidence that CNNs can translate SPT data into UTT equivalent material properties, thereby bridging a long-standing methodological gap and supporting automated evaluation of structural steels in service.
[192] Kim, N.Y.,Joun, M.S. .An analytical model for correcting standard tensile test curves of different materials[M].Journal of Physics: Conference Series,2025,3144 (1),Institute of Physics
摘要：An algorithm of mapping an engineering stress-engineering strain curve of a tensile test to that of the other tensile test with different gage length to diameter, expressed by a closed-form function called tensile test mapping function, is applied to various materials of ESW105, S25C, SUS304 and SWCH10A. Their tensile tests with different ratios of gage length to diameter are mapped to obtain the virtual tensile tests of the standard tensile specimens having the same gage length to diameter of 5. Their tensile tests are simulated using the accurate flow curves obtained using the combined elastoplastic FEM and tensile test method to validate the tensile test mapping function. It is numerically shown that the mapped tensile tests are acceptable. Some improvement schemes are also presented to enhance accuracy. © Published under licence by IOP Publishing Ltd.
[193] Kim, Bum Joon .Tensile Behavior of 3D Printed Specimens by Small Punch Test[J].Journal of the Korean Society for Precision Engineering,2025,42 (10):879-884,Korean Society for Precision Engineeing
摘要：The purpose of this study is to evaluate the deformation behavior of 3D printed specimens using the small punch tensile test method. Traditional tensile tests for assessing mechanical properties require a significant amount of material to produce uniaxial tensile specimens. In contrast, the small punch test method only requires 10×10×0.5 mm (width × length × thickness) thin plate specimens, providing a substantial economic advantage in specimen sampling and production. This method is particularly beneficial when it is impossible to produce specimens of the same size as uniaxial specimens, as it allows tensile testing with just the minimum sample required. In this study, we utilized fused deposition modeling 3D printing and considered various 3D printing parameters, such as layer height and volume fraction, while manufacturing the specimens. We then compared and analyzed the effects of these variables on tensile strength as measured by the small punch tensile test. Furthermore, we focused on investigating the applicability of this method to the deformation behavior of 3D printed specimens. We also examined the impact of laminating conditions, including layer height, printing speed, and laminating direction, on the failure modes observed after the small punch tensile test. Copyright © The Korean Society for Precision Engineering.
[194] Mohammad Bakhshi,Isabel B. Valente,Honeyeh Ramezansefat ,等.Effect of inertia and test approach on the high-strain-rate tensile behavior of steel fiber reinforced concrete[J].Cement and Concrete Composites,2025,161 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：High strain rate loadings lead to fundamental modifications in the tensile stress-strain response of steel fiber-reinforced concrete (SFRC). These modifications include higher tensile strength and corresponding strain and fracture energy. This paper investigates the effect of strain rate on the tensile behavior of SFRC, covering ranges from quasi-static (10<sup>−6</sup> to 10<sup>−1</sup> s<sup>−1</sup>) to impact (10–50 s<sup>−1</sup>). For this purpose, an instrumented drop-weight test setup was developed. The instrumentation includes a high-speed response data acquisition, a high-speed video camera, two fast response load cells, one clip gauge, and two strain gauges. Axial and transversal inertia effects were considered during the impact process to reach the real tensile behavior of SFRC. The effects of strain rate on the stress–strain and stress versus cracking opening displacement relations, tensile strength, and fracture energy of SFRC are obtained and discussed in both quasi-static and impact ranges. Novel models are proposed for predicting the strain rate effect on the tensile strength and fracture energy of SFRC, considering the type of tensile load applied. The models proposed in the current study are compared with the experimental results obtained within this research and those available in other studies. The findings demonstrate that incorporating the influence of inertia and employing the proposed models for the testing approach markedly enhances the accuracy in predicting the dynamic tensile behavior of SFRC.
[195] Yue Wang,Tianxiang Wang,Mattia Debertolis ,等.Design of birch plywood as gusset plates in timber-timber uniaxial tension connections: Influence of fastener pattern, face grain orientation, and discussions based on the Whitmore effective width theory[J].Journal of Building Engineering,2024,86 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study reveals timber-timber composite joints consisting of glulam pieces and birch plywood plates with three different load-to-face grain angles. Utilizing a similar number of fasteners and arranging the fastener array from narrow to wide, uniaxial tension specimens were manufactured with four different fastener patterns. The thickness of birch plywood was intentionally under-designed so that the failure modes for all connections were net tension failure of birch plywood plates. Thereafter, the influence of the fastener pattern and face grain orientation on the load-bearing capacity and stiffness of the investigated composite joints was studied. The load capacity and nominal strength generally increased when the nail patterns varied from narrow to wide. This observation was associated with the Whitmore effective width theory (load spread angle) in steel gusset plate design. Moreover, to derive valid analytical methods to predict the net-tension capacity of birch plywood plates, the classic spread angle model that assumes rectangular stress blocks and the modified spread angle model that considers the summation of stresses from each fastener row were discussed. Both models were adopted to predict the net tension capacity of investigated specimens at 0°. In addition, the stiffness of joints was measured and compared with slip modulus formulas in Eurocode 5. The measured local stiffness values were found to be independent of the fastener pattern and load-face grain angles. The analytical slip modulus assuming the case without predrilling exhibited a satisfactory prediction, while formulas assuming the case with predrilling tend to give overestimations. © 2024 The Authors
[196] Badiyan, E. E.,Tonkopryad, A. G.,Shurinov, M. R. ,等.Features of crystal lattice rotations in polycrystalline aluminum samples during deformation under uniaxial tension at 300 K[J].Low Temperature Physics,2026,52 (4):517-524,AIP Publishing
摘要：The results of experimental studies on the regularities of crystal lattice rotations during plastic deformation of large-grained aluminum samples are presented. The studies were carried out using an original high-resolution technique based on obtaining color orientation maps from the entire surface of the samples. A wide variety of different ways in which the crystal lattice can rotate has been discovered. These include grain rotation and fragmentation, the formation of various types of rotational structures, flare-shaped rotations, complex rotations occurring simultaneously in adjacent grains, rotations that alter the configuration of grain boundaries, and others. For the first time, possible mechanisms of grain rotation during the deformation of large-crystal samples have been identified. They consist of the restructuring of the subgrain structure within the grain. Such restructuring can be relay-like or chaotic in nature. Experiments have shown that with such grain rotation mechanisms, the magnitude can be 10-15 deg, and the magnitude of the relative grain deformation can exceed that for the entire sample.
[197] Jose Calaf-Chica,María. J. García-Tárrago,Mónica Preciado-Calzada ,等.Estimation of ultimate tensile strength of tubular materials using Ring Hoop Tension Test with cylindrical pins[J].International Journal of Pressure Vessels and Piping,2025,218 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Mechanical characterization of metallic pipes is essential for assessing their structural integrity in industrial applications. The Ring Hoop Tension Test (RHTT) offers a simpler alternative to traditional methods for determining hoop strength, with two primary variants: the D-shaped pin configuration, which requires custom tooling for each pipe geometry, and the cylindrical pin system, which simplifies testing but introduces bending stresses. While the cylindrical pin method reduces friction-related uncertainties, its applicability for estimating ultimate tensile strength (UTS) had not been explored. This study develops a correlation between the minimum slope of the RHTT load–displacement curve and UTS in the hoop direction, specifically for cylindrical pins.
[198] Wei, Dahai,Zeng, Fanlin,Cui, Jianzheng ,等.Mechanical behaviour of cis-1,4-polyisoprene under uniaxial tension with silica and POSS filling: a coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulation[J].Physica Scripta,2025,100 (3):035930-035930,IOP Publishing Ltd
摘要：In this paper, the iterative Boltzmann inversion (IBI) method has been employed to develop the coarse-grained (CG) force field of cis-1,4-polyisoprene (PI) rubber and its silica-filled and POSS-filled composites. Uniaxial tension simulations have been conducted for the pure PI model, the silica-filled PI model, and the POSS-filled PI model, as well as their particle grafting and matrix cross-linking models. By examining the evolution of molecular chains, filled particles, and the entire matrix in terms of mechanical behaviour, it was found that particle-induced molecular chain straightening is the primary factor contributing to the elevated macroscopic stress level observed in the particle-filled PI model. However, the ungrafted silica particles do not result in an increase in the stress level of the system due to the weaker interactions. The grafting and matrix cross-linking processes serve to enhance this induced process, with the former increasing particle roughness and the latter increasing molecular chain roughness. In terms of the entire condensed system, the macroscopic stress level of the system is strongly correlated with the inhomogeneity of the microscopic strain. The inhomogeneity of the strain distribution in the system demonstrates the existence of a region of strain concentration, which leads to large deformations, resulting in the loosening of the structure and a decrease in the load-carrying capacity. The nucleation of microvoids in the system cannot be attributed to microscopic stress concentrations, which are more likely to occur in the weak interaction region. In POSS-filled systems, the weak interaction region is located between the substrate and the substrate, which explains the formation of microvoids in this region. In contrast, in silica-filled systems, the weak interaction region is between the substrate and the filler, resulting in microvoids forming at the filler-substrate interface. Silica can compensate for the weak interaction region b
[199] Zida Liu,Diyuan Li,Peng Xiao ,等.Mechanical behavior and microfracture characteristics of granite specimens with varying length-to-diameter ratios under direct tensile test[J].Construction and Building Materials,2025,500 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Investigating the tensile failure behavior of rocks is important for the construction of rock engineering. This study aimed to analyze the mechanical behavior and microfracture characteristics of granite with varying length-to-diameter (L/D) ratios under direct tensile tests. Scanning electron microscopy, particle size analyzer, and image segmentation techniques were used to analyze the morphological characteristics and roughness of fracture surfaces, as well as the fine particles produced during tensile tests. The results showed that: (1) With the increase of the L/D ratio, the tensile strength (<em>σ</em><sub><em>t</em></sub>) values showed a decreasing trend. (2) The morphological characteristics of the tensile fracture surface can be classified into three types: rough, smooth, and tearing. The area proportions of rough, smooth, and tearing morphologies were 93 %, 5 %, and 2 % respectively. (3) The microfracture characteristics of the granite specimens that failed in the direct tensile tests were similar to those observed in mode I fracture tests. (4) The surface area of the fine particles was 1.49 times the nominal fracture surface area of the specimen. The true fracture surface area of the whole specimen was 2.88 times the nominal fracture surface area. (5) The theoretical relationship between <em>σ</em><sub><em>t</em></sub> and mode Ⅰ fracture toughness (<em>K</em><sub><em>ⅠC</em></sub>) was derived by considering the true fracture surface area of cylindrical specimens. The findings of this study provided new insights into the microscopic mechanism of granite with different L/D ratios under direct tensile test and into the relationship between <em>σ</em><sub><em>t</em></sub> and <em>K</em><sub><em>ⅠC</em></sub>.
[200] Kishen, J. M. Chandra,Yogesh, R.,Singh, Parvinder .Direct tension test on large concrete specimens - Part I: Tensile strength, fracture properties and size effect[J].International Journal of Fracture,2025,249 (3):1-28,SPRINGER
摘要：The tensile strength and fracture properties of concrete play a vital role in the design of large concrete structures. These properties are evaluated from indirect tests on small-sized specimens. As concrete is known to exhibit a strong size effect, it is important to evaluate these properties from large-sized specimens through a direct tension test. In this research, we perform direct tension tests on large-sized concrete specimens under displacement control. The conditions under which the specimens have to be prepared and tested, and the challenges faced are highlighted. It is seen that the tensile strength is almost half the values that are suggested in major codes of practice. Important elastic and fracture properties under direct tension, including tensile strength, fracture toughness, fracture energy, critical crack mouth opening displacement, critical crack length, and softening law parameters, which find application in non-linear finite element models, are evaluated.