[1] 邱豪,张文康,廖飞宇 ,等.不同倾斜界面的高强砂浆–花岗岩试件动态裂纹扩展行为研究[J].岩石力学与工程学报,2026,45 (1):79-98
摘要：高强砂浆因其高强度、高耐久性和优异的黏结性能,被广泛应用于裂隙岩体加固。在动态载荷作用下,高强砂浆–岩石组合体中的裂纹扩展行为复杂,既可沿界面扩展,也常出现穿透界面扩展的现象。目前针对静态界面断裂的研究较多,而动态载荷下穿透扩展机制的研究相对缺乏。为此,以花岗岩为加固对象,将其与高强砂浆组合制成侧开单裂纹三角形板(SMCT)试件,采用改进的分离式霍普金森压杆系统(SHPB)进行冲击试验。试验中采用红外测速仪测量冲击速度,并通过应变片与超动态应变仪采集波形数据。结合试验–数值方法与裂纹扩展计(CPG),系统研究界面倾角、粗糙度及砂浆强度对裂纹扩展参数、动态断裂韧度和断裂能的影响。利用ABAQUS软件建立数值模型,批量嵌入零厚度二维四节点黏聚力单元(COH2D4)以模拟裂纹随机扩展;通过试验数据获取裂纹扩展速度与时间,结合普适函数计算动态应力强度因子与动态断裂韧度。结果表明:当界面倾角由90°增至106°时,砂浆与花岗岩区域的平均断裂韧度分别提高19%和23%,平均断裂能分别提升38%和56%;砂浆抗压强度从80 MPa提高至100 MPa时,试件平均起裂韧度增加了32%;粗糙度对穿透裂纹扩展速度、动态断裂韧度及断裂能的影响不显著。数值模拟显示,在冲击载荷下裂纹尖端拉应力远大于剪应力,剪应力近乎为0,SMCT试件始终呈现Ⅰ型断裂特征。
[2] 张建国,杨文,汪海波 ,等.动载作用板岩断裂韧度与裂纹扩展特征试验研究[J].爆破,2025,42 (1):37-43,55
摘要：为探究动载作用下天然板岩的断裂韧度,论文采用板岩制作直切槽半圆盘弯曲试样(NSCB),利用直径50 mm分离式霍普金森压杆(SHPB)试验系统进行了动态冲击试验,同时使用高速摄像机记录了其裂纹扩展过程,研究了不同冲击气压和预制裂纹长度下板岩的动态断裂韧度及裂纹扩展速度。结果表明:试件的动态断裂韧度与冲击气压和加载率呈现正相关,而随着预制裂纹长度的增加动态断裂韧度先增加后减小,根据拟合结果,当预制裂纹长度为7.45 mm时试件的动态断裂韧度达到最大值,0.2、0.3和0.4 MPa三种冲击气压下对应的动态断裂韧度最大值分别为2.99、3.57和4.14 GPa·m^(1/2);试件的破坏过程可以分为动态损伤、裂纹孕育、裂纹形成、裂纹扩展和试件断裂五个阶段;试件主裂纹的扩展速度波动较大,而预制裂纹长度对试件裂纹扩展速度的影响较小。研究揭示了不同工况下板岩试件动态断裂行为的差异,对该类岩性地下工程支护、爆破参数设计具有一定的参考意义。
[3] 杨超,张鹏飞,汪伟 ,等.求解三维固体结构裂纹扩展的有限质点法[J].固体力学学报,2025,46 (1):39-53
摘要：对三维固体裂纹扩展的数值模拟一直是较为复杂的过程,裂纹路径的不可预知性使其计算求解相当繁琐且耗时.有限质点法是以向量力学为基础的一种结构复杂行为分析的新方法,本文将它与粘聚力模型相结合用于三维固体动态断裂问题的分析.该方法将固体域离散为质点群,允许通过自由增减质点实现从连续到非连续变形过程的模拟,处理裂纹扩展问题有独特优势.本文基于外加粘聚力模型构建有限质点法三维固体断裂的判别准则和粘聚元自动嵌入的断裂分析模式,提出一种基于遍历搜索的质点拓扑更新的通用处理方法,利用CUDA开发工具包编制三维固体断裂计算的GPU并行求解程序,并通过若干算例探讨方法和程序的有效性和正确性.
[4] 刘瀚文,吕玺,付小龙 ,等.固体推进剂断裂与裂纹扩展研究进展[J].火炸药学报,2024,47 (10):857-869,I0001,China Ordnance Industry Corporation
摘要：为了研究固体推进剂的断裂性能和裂纹扩展机理,介绍了固体推进剂断裂及裂纹扩展的理论研究和常见数值仿真方法,指出扩展有限元法(XFEM)和内聚力模型(CZM)是模拟固体推进剂断裂最常见的数值仿真方法;总结了固体推进剂断裂特性的影响因素,对固体推进剂界面脱湿机理试验研究进行了综述。其中,相较于裂纹尺寸和加载速率,温度、老化和围压3种因素可以改变固体推进剂的裂纹扩展机理。最后对固体推进剂断裂的研究方向和发展趋势进行了展望,认为考虑热力耦合影响因素的动态断裂研究、燃烧环境下的断裂性能研究、实现动态加载下全过程的实时细观观测和数值仿真方法的更新是未来固体推进剂断裂与裂纹扩展研究的重点。附参考文献73篇。
[5] 汤俊,汪海波,朱建 ,等.冲击荷载作用下弱胶结煤岩体的断裂韧度及裂纹扩展特性试验研究[J].爆破,2025,42 (4):40-50
摘要：温度和含水状态是影响煤岩强度的关键因素,而动态荷载的扰动又使其破坏过程进一步复杂化。采用红砂岩和型煤制作出预制中心直裂纹的煤岩组合体,设置不同温度条件(25℃、0℃、-5℃)和不同含水状态(干燥、饱水)对试样进行预处理,利用分离式霍普金森压杆(SHPB)试验系统开展动态试验,并采用高速相机记录其破坏形态,分析了不同冲击气压下,温度和含水状态的变化对煤岩组合体断裂韧度和裂纹扩展的影响。研究结果表明:煤/岩试件及煤岩组合体试件动态断裂韧度存在明显的应变率效应,冲击气压的增大使试件应力强度因子峰值增大,达到峰值所需的时间减少,而温度和含水状态只影响试件应力强度因子峰值的大小,不改其变达到峰值所需的时间;对于煤岩组合体试件,当两个试件均为两种相同材料组成时,由于其受冲击端材料体积大于预制裂缝端材料,动态断裂韧度取决于受冲击端材料,动态断裂韧度较大的材料作为受冲击端时,试件整体动态断裂韧度更大;随着含水状态的变化,饱水试件的动态断裂韧度小于干燥试件,而裂纹扩展速度快于干燥试件,随着冲击气压的增大,试件的动态断裂韧度和裂纹扩展速度亦增大,随着温度的降低,试件的动态断裂韧度先增大后减小。本研究旨在深入探讨西部弱胶结煤岩体的断裂韧度特性及其裂纹扩展规律,这对于理解煤岩体在复杂地质环境下的力学行为和预防工程地质灾害的发生具有至关重要的意义。
[6] 商广源,谈梦婷,刘慕皓 ,等.基于近场动力学的破片撞击YAG透明陶瓷裂纹扩展数值模拟研究[J].北京理工大学学报,2026,46 (4):436-450
摘要：为准确预测冲击作用下透明陶瓷的裂纹扩展过程,针对传统连续介质力学方法在模拟冲击载荷作用下脆性材料损伤时的局限性,引入键型近场动力学理论,构建碳化钨破片撞击YAG透明陶瓷的数值模型.通过边缘冲击实验验证模型的可靠性,系统研究撞击过程中材料的动态裂纹演化机制,并深入分析冲击速度、能量释放率及破片形状等因素对裂纹扩展行为的影响规律.研究结果表明,破片冲击作用下,陶瓷内部呈现粉碎区扩展、裂纹扩展与碎片剥落飞溅三阶段破环模式.撞击速度增加,损伤速度先增加后保持不变,在较高速度下,主裂纹扩展角度无显著变化.次裂纹簇位置随撞击速度增加而靠近中心,速度较高时次裂纹簇消失.透明陶瓷能量释放率的增加有效抑制粉碎区形成,对最终破坏形态无显著影响.与锥形破片相比,球形与柱形破片对陶瓷产生裂纹扩展模式有显著差异,但冲击破坏程度弱.陶瓷层达到临界厚度时,复合靶板(YAG/PVB/玻璃)中夹胶层可有效阻断裂纹传播.研究成果可为定量分析透明陶瓷裂纹扩展、精准预测冲击损伤提供了可靠手段,为轻质-高强-可视一体化透明复合结构设计奠定基础.
[7] Miao Cao,Xiaofei Cao,Zhuangzhuang Wang ,等.Brittle dynamic fracture response and crack propagation behavior of biomimetic tree-like fractal groove structure[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2026,339 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Brittle fracture is one of the most common collapse modes in engineering materials and often leads to sudden and unpredictable structural failure. Although the phase-field method has greatly simplified the simulation of brittle fracture, the effects of groove-type interfacial defects on dynamic fracture behavior are still unclear. Drawing inspiration from fractal biomimetic concept, this study proposes a biomimetic tree-like fractal groove structure (TFGS) that integrates fractal geometry with engineered groove defects. We adopt the dynamic phase-field model to systematically examine how the hierarchical levels and geometric parameters of the TFGS affect the dynamic crack propagation behavior. The coupling mechanisms between dynamic effects and groove-interface characteristics are also explored. Testing results indicate that the groove hierarchy, thickness, angle, and length are all the key parameters for regulating the dynamic crack propagation path. By practicing these parameters, the TFGS can effectively trigger crack deflection, branching or acceleration, thereby altering the dynamic fracture characteristics, such as crack-tip velocity, elastic strain-energy storage, and fracture-energy dissipation. These findings reveal the relationship between dynamic fracture mechanisms and multi-level groove structures. They also provide new insights for the structural design of engineered materials and offer a promising pathway toward precise crack-path control and optimized fracture performance.
[8] Anupama S,J.M. Chandra Kishen .Influence of residual stress on dynamic fracture: A phase field study[J].International Journal of Mechanical Sciences,2026,320 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Understanding the effect of residual stress on dynamic fracture is an important and fundamentally challenging problem in fracture mechanics. Residual stress significantly influences fracture behavior; however, its role in dynamic fracture remains largely unexplored. In particular, its effect on crack branching, micro-branching instability, and fracture resistance has not been systematically quantified. In this work, a variational phase field framework is developed to model dynamic fracture in the presence of pre-existing residual stress, introduced through an eigenstrain formulation. This enables a consistent incorporation of residual stress within a dynamic phase field framework. Fracture resistance during crack propagation under residual stress is quantified using the normalized damage dissipation rate. The results show that residual stress fundamentally alters crack dynamics. Tensile residual stress increases the crack driving force, promotes early micro-branching, and reduces fracture resistance. In contrast, compressive residual stress stabilizes crack propagation, delays branching, and enhances resistance. These effects are captured through the evolution of the damage dissipation rate. Residual stress also modifies stress wave interactions through crack path deviation, leading to distinct stress redistribution. The results demonstrate that residual stress plays a governing role in dynamic fracture and can induce micro-branching instability and alter branching criteria. These findings indicate that tailoring residual stress profiles provides a pathway to control crack propagation and enhance fracture resistance. Further, the proposed framework establishes a mechanistic basis for future three-dimensional simulations and experimental investigations.
[9] Hao Qiu,Chaojie Xie,Yubin Hong ,等.Investigating crack propagation behavior of HSM-granite interface under static and dynamic loading: Experimental and numerical study[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2026,141, Part B ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Natural rock masses often have dense fracture networks and structural defects, compromising their stability. High-Strength Mortar (HSM) is widely used for grouting reinforcement, but the HSM-rock interface is a potential weak link, especially under dynamic disturbances. This study investigates the fracture behavior of the HSM-granite interface using Bi-material Notched Semi-Circular Bend (BNSCB) specimens. Three-point bending tests under static (0.1 mm/min) and dynamic (2.5 m/s, 3.5 m/s) loading with pre-crack lengths (5, 10, 15 mm) were conducted. Crack propagation velocity was measured via Crack Propagation Gauge (CPG), and interface characteristics were analyzed using SEM-EDS. A cohesive zone model (CZM) was developed in ABAQUS to simulate crack propagation, and complex stress intensity factors (CSIF) were calculated. Results show Interfacial cracks consistently propagated along the HSM-granite boundary, confirming the interface as the weak link due to a porous, calcium-rich Interfacial Transition Zone (ITZ) about 151 μm wide, identified by EDS. Dynamic loading significantly accelerated crack propagation, with velocities increasing by 417 % to 1579 % compared to static conditions, due to inertial effects and rapid energy accumulation. The fracture was predominantly Mode I, with the effective fracture toughness (<em>K</em><sub>eff</sub>) under dynamic loading being 30–40 times greater than under static loading. The Dynamic Increase Factor (DIF) was primarily controlled by the loading rate. Furthermore, a longer pre-crack length (from 5 mm to 15 mm) led to a reduction in <em>K</em><sub>eff</sub> by 21 % (dynamic) and 13 % (static), as longer cracks require a lower external load to reach the critical condition. Simulations using a Cohesive Zone Model (CZM) with a bilinear traction-separation law accurately replicated the experimental crack paths and stress distributions, validating the model's capability for simulating high-strain-rate interfacial fracture.
[10] 杨化林,徐梦晨,王新翔 ,等.基于扩展有限元法的安瓿瓶裂纹扩展研究及割瓶机构设计[J].机械设计与研究,2026,42 (2):239-245
摘要：在医疗行业里，安瓿瓶是静脉配药过程中存放药物的容器，在配药过程中安瓿瓶的开启安全性至关重要。为了研究安瓿瓶颈部在受外部载荷时裂纹扩展的特性，揭示其在开启过程中裂纹扩展的机制，通过扩展有限元法，对安瓿瓶颈部存在预制裂纹与无预制裂纹这两种情况下的裂纹扩展特性进行了对比分析。仿真结果表明，在没有预制裂纹的状况下，安瓿瓶受载荷时，裂纹扩展路径复杂多变，使得破裂过程不稳定，难以有效控制，易造成安瓿瓶整体破裂。当安瓿瓶颈部有预制裂纹时，裂纹扩展路径得到显著改善，能够实现快速且稳定的断裂，从而有效降低操作风险。对应力强度因子与裂纹长度的变化关系，以及裂纹长度-瓶径比与裂纹张开位移进行研究，结果表明，随着裂纹长度的增加，应力强度因子值也随之增加，裂纹长度-瓶颈比值为0.3时为理想状态。经实验验证，证实了仿真结果的可靠性。基于仿真结果，设计了一种新型割瓶机构，该机构对安瓿瓶颈部进行切割形成预制裂纹，验证了其在实际操作中的有效性和可靠性。
[11] Yulin Wang,Tao Zhu,Rongyuan Chen ,等.Investigation of dynamic crack propagation behavior across the C-shaped UHPC-granite interface[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2026,338 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study focuses on exploring the dynamic crack propagation behavior across the C-shaped interface between Ultra-High-Performance Concrete (UHPC) and granite. A series of impact experiments was carried out using a split Hopkinson pressure bar with Side Material Cleavage Triangle (SMCT) samples. In the experiments, the geometry of the C-shaped interfaces and the strength of the UHPC material in the SMCT sample were taken into account. The crack propagation velocity across the interface was quantified via a resistance measurement technique. Numerical simulations were performed by AUTODYN, using a softening fracture model to simulate dynamic crack propagation. The crack path, propagation velocity, and the principal stress field were comprehensively analyzed. Meanwhile, a hybrid experimental–numerical approach was utilized to determine the dynamic stress intensity factor (DSIF) throughout the crack propagation process. The results demonstrate that the C-shaped interface can effectively inhibit crack initiation and propagation. When a propagating crack reaches the interface, deceleration or crack arrest is observed. Once the crack propagates through the interface, its velocity increases. The dynamic crack propagation velocity follows a V-shaped trend during the process of penetrating the interface. During the crack propagation process across the interface, the DSIF increases with the crack length. When the inclination angle of the C-shaped interface increases from 15° to 30° and 45°, the crack initiation stress intensity factor (SIF) increases significantly. The higher the UHPC strength, the greater the crack initiation SIF, and the stronger the suppression of crack initiation.
[12] Guangrui Ma,Ning Luo,Yucheng Wei ,等.Time-dependent dynamic mode I fracture and crack opening behavior of microcrystalline limestone under transient loading[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2026,143 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Transient loading exerts a significant influence on the deformation and failure of microcrystalline limestone in underground engineering, yet its time-dependent effects on dynamic Mode I fracture remain insufficiently quantified. To investigate the influence of stress rate on Mode I fracture initiation and crack opening behavior in microcrystalline limestone, a time-dependent fracture model was established. Based on Griffith's energy-balance principle, a time-dependent fracture formulation was derived, yielding analytical expressions for crack propagation velocity (CPV) and crack opening displacement (COD) under transient loading. The finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) method was employed to calculate transient crack-surface displacements with high temporal resolution. Both theoretical analysis and numerical simulations demonstrate that crack opening displacement (COD) and crack extension length exhibit an approximately linear relationship with the magnitude of time-dependent applied stress, while crack opening velocity (COV) and crack propagation velocity (CPV) show an approximately linear correlation with the time rate of the applied stress. The results indicate that the transient stress history dominates the initiation and subsequent propagation of Mode I cracks. Theoretical predictions of crack opening and propagation responses—including their rate dependence and path sensitivity across different loading rates—are in good agreement with numerical simulations under various transient loading paths, verifying the proposed time-dependent fracture formulation. This validated framework provides a quantitative basis for characterizing dynamic fracture of microcrystalline limestone under transient loading and offers technical support for stability assessment and design of limestone-hosted underground structures.
[13] P.Q. Li,K.F. Wang,B.L. Wang .How do local and non-local resonators affect the dynamic interface fracture behaviors in anisotropic elastic bimaterials[J].Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids,2026,211 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Anisotropic material properties complicate the dynamic fracture mechanisms at bimaterial interfaces and challenges the validity of fracture models for isotropic systems. To address these challenges, this study systematically investigates the influence of local and non-local resonators on dynamic interface fracture behaviors in bonded dissimilar elastic lattices. Combining Fourier transform and Wiener-Hopf technique, the dynamic interface discrete lattice fracture model is developed. A general fracture criterion based on principal strain and maximum energy release rate is proposed to predict crack kinking and assess the validity of the obtained solutions. The regulatory effects of resonators on wave propagation are analyzed, demonstrating that local resonators enhance fracture resistance by inducing additional dissipative waves, while non-local resonators further suppress crack propagation by modifying the characteristics of dissipative waves through extended interactions. Parametric studies show that decreasing the resonator frequency or increasing the resonator stiffness ratio can improve the dynamic fracture toughness. For non-local resonators, both positive and negative stiffness connections affect the dynamic fracture behavior: large positive-stiffness connection offers moderate toughening at high crack propagation speeds, and negative-stiffness connection enhances fracture resistance by reducing the shear wave speed. Moreover, strain field analysis indicates that high interface stiffness drives the crack to kink toward the softer lattice side. Finite element models validate the proposed fracture criteria, revealing that the synergy mechanism of principal strain and energy release rate governs the crack deflection direction. These results provide novel insights into dynamic interface fracture suppression in heterogeneous materials and hold potential applications in structural safety protection.
[14] Vishabjeet Singh,Md Rushdie Ibne Islam .Modelling dynamic brittle fracture with fourth-order phase-field integrated Eulerian SPH[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2026,141 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Dynamic brittle fracture presents substantial numerical challenges due to the complex nature of crack initiation, propagation, branching, and fragmentation. In this work, we develop a fourth-order phase-field model for brittle fracture within the Eulerian Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics (ESPH) framework. The use of higher-order spatial derivatives in the phase-field formulation enables enhanced resolution of crack topology, stable interfaces and smoother energy dissipation. The ESPH method, operating in the current configuration, is particularly suited for modelling large deformations and complex fracture behaviours without the need for remeshing, which might be required for mesh-based methods. We validate our model against several benchmark problems, such as dynamic crack branching in notched plates under tensile loading and asymmetric crack propagation in three-point bending tests. The results highlight the capability of the proposed fourth-order ESPH-phase-field model to accurately predict crack paths, branching, and coalescence phenomena with improved interface regularity and numerical robustness.
[15] Zhe Dong,Zhonghui Li,Enyuan Wang ,等.Dynamic fracture behavior and AE characteristics of CSTBD sandstone specimen under different loading angles[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2026,144 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Fracturing of cracked rock masses under dynamic loading readily induces rockburst hazards. In this study, cracked straight-through Brazilian disc (CSTBD) sandstone specimens were subjected to dynamic fracture tests at various loading angles (<em>θ</em> = 0°–90°) using a Split Hopkinson pressure Bar (SHPB) system, with digital image correlation (DIC) and acoustic emission (AE) techniques. The results show that the failure process consists of three distinct stages: Elastic deformation, wing crack propagation, and secondary crack propagation. The peak load and displacement generally increase with increasing <em>θ</em>, while abrupt changes occur in the range of <em>θ</em> = 45°-60°. With increasing <em>θ</em>, the locus of crack initiation transitions from the prefabricated crack tip toward the crack center, and the measured initiation angle exhibits an initial increase followed by stabilization around 100°. AE energy evolution and frequency spectra characteristics reveal that the wing crack failure mechanism gradually transitions from mode I to mixed mode I/II fracture, and reverts to mode I fracture at large loading angles. Moreover, the AE energy released during the secondary crack propagation stage is approximately twice that released during the wing crack penetration stage. Under the condition <em>r</em><sub><em>c</em></sub> = 1.725 mm, the crack initiation angle and fracture toughness predicted by the GMTS criterion exhibit excellent consistency with the experimental data. By combining experiments and theory, this work offers new insights into the dynamic fracture behavior of deep rock masses subjected to dynamic disturbances
[16] Jiaquan Feng,Wenjing Ye .A peridynamics-based topology optimization framework for enhancing dynamic fracture resistance[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2026,451 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Dynamic fracture in brittle and quasi-brittle structures under impact or blast loading presents a critical design challenge where enhanced fracture resistance is essential for safety. While topology optimization (TO) offers a powerful approach for systematic design, its application to dynamic fracture problems remains largely unexplored due to the complexities of rate effects, inertia, and crack propagation. This study introduces a novel TO framework that integrates bond-based peridynamics—a nonlocal theory adept at modeling dynamic crack initiation and propagation—with gradient-based TO methods to design structures with superior fracture resistance under dynamic loading. We formulate a fracture-driven multi-objective function that simultaneously maximizes total fracture energy (toughness), penalizes early-time fracture energy (delaying crack initiation), and preserves structural stiffness under a volume constraint. The analytical sensitivities for this dynamic problem are rigorously derived using an adjoint method. To enable efficient, large-scale computation, an OpenCL-based parallel acceleration scheme is implemented. The framework is validated on two benchmark problems: an L-shaped panel and a pre-cracked cantilever beam. Compared to stiffness-maximized designs, our optimized structures achieve two- to threefold increases in fracture toughness and delay crack initiation by 12 %–31 %, while maintaining comparable stiffness. We further demonstrate that optimal topologies are highly loading-rate-specific, underscoring the necessity of a dynamic fracture perspective in design. The proposed framework provides a physically consistent and computationally efficient pathway for designing fracture-resistant structures under dynamic conditions.
[17] 罗家元,张洪强,杨承霖 .热处理残余应力作用下风电机组重载齿轮裂纹扩展分析[J].热加工工艺,2026,55 (6):80-87
摘要：风电机组中渗碳齿轮服役于重载工况,其失效形式多数为齿轮内部疲劳断裂。为探究淬火残余应力对风电机组重载齿轮裂纹扩展的影响,建立三维渗碳-淬火数值模型,在考虑渗碳材料属性改变和分析淬火残余应力分布规律基础上,计算残余应力作用下齿轮啮合过程中的时变啮合刚度。利用集中参数法建立直齿轮副的六自由度动力学模型,求解得到振动响应并提取动态啮合力。将其转化为等效力矩求解不同渗碳深度下的应力强度因子,揭示淬火残余应力和渗碳处理对重载荷齿轮裂纹扩展的影响规律。结果表明:风电重载齿轮因热处理残余应力中拉应力的存在导致裂纹萌生于轮齿两侧内部渗碳层与心部的过渡区域;残余应力使得应力强度因子提高了近65%;随着动态载荷循环次数的增加,裂纹长度逐渐增加,扩展速率不断增大;在达到最佳渗碳深度前的相同裂纹长度下,渗碳深度越深,循环次数增加且增幅大于线性增量。
[18] Taiyu Zhang,Zhiwu Zhu,Fulai Zhang .Dynamic mode I fracture behavior of frozen soil under impact loading and FDEM numerical simulation: Based on a rate-dependent elastoplastic and cohesive model[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2026,141, Part A ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The dynamic fracture behavior of frozen soil under impact loading is critical for ensuring the structural stability and service safety of infrastructure in cold regions exposed to extreme loading conditions. In this study, impact experiments were conducted on cracked straight-through flat Brazilian disk specimens under varying temperatures (−5, −15, and − 25 °C) and strain rates (100–250 s<sup>−1</sup>). The crack propagation behavior, mode I dynamic fracture toughness, energy dissipation mechanisms, and responses to temperature and strain rate were systematically investigated. The results indicated that the mode I dynamic fracture toughness of frozen soil increased approximately linearly with strain rate. Low temperatures increased strain rate sensitivity. At high strain rates, the extent of specimen failure and fracture energy increased significantly. Furthermore, a finite–discrete element model incorporating rate-dependent elastoplastic behavior and a cohesive failure criterion was developed to investigate the dynamic fracture behavior of frozen soil. The spatial distribution of the cracks and evolution of the fracture modes at different strain rates were quantitatively analyzed. Simulation results demonstrated that as the strain rate increased from 100 to 250 s<sup>−1</sup>, the total number of cracks increased exponentially. Shear cracks increased from 7 % to 23 %, whereas tensile cracks decreased from 93 % to 77 %. The initial inclination angle of the central crack significantly affected the fracture modes and propagation paths of the cracks. The numerical simulation results closely matched the experimental observations of crack propagation paths, failure modes, and fracture toughness evolution, indicating that the proposed numerical model effectively captures the dynamic fracture behavior of frozen soil.
[19] 张云帆,李欢庆,宋卓 ,等.晶体相场模拟揭示晶粒取向与裂纹扩展关系[J].稀有金属材料与工程,2026,55 (5):1268-1278,Science Press
摘要：采用晶体相场法,研究了双晶系统在动态拉伸条件下,不同取向角度对纳米双晶体系中微裂纹扩展机制的影响。结果表明,相同拉伸条件下,裂纹扩展方式、裂纹体积分数、裂纹扩展速率与晶粒取向相关。同取向差裂纹扩展机制差异取决于裂纹尖端附近的位错活动,位于裂纹尖端的单个位错,易会导致裂纹发生脆性扩展,加快裂纹扩展速率;裂纹尖端多个方向不同的位错可能会发生位错缠结,进而阻碍裂纹扩展。
[20] 陶子豪,李祥龙,王建国 ,等.爆破荷载作用下透明脆性材料的三维裂纹扩展行为[J].爆炸与冲击,2025,45 (9):105-120
摘要：针对岩石等脆性材料在爆炸荷载作用下的裂纹扩展行为难以捕捉的问题,基于爆破损伤理论,利用有机玻璃脆性材料的透明特性进行了爆破模型试验,借助高速摄影技术和计算机断层扫描系统深入探究了爆破荷载作用下脆性材料的动态断裂行为和三维裂纹演化规律,结合三维扫描技术揭示了裂纹的三维形态和破裂面的形貌特征。结果表明:在多段爆破能量持续作用下,脆性材料的裂纹存在多次激发扩展的情况;爆炸冲击波产生的初始裂纹数密度高,呈鱼鳞状形貌从“崎岖”向“微波”过渡,平整度提高。其中,裂纹面高程的方差随着到爆心距离的增大从0.796降低至0.586;最大高度从3.2 m降低至2.8 mm,降低了12.5%。随着到爆心距离的增大,介质由压剪破坏向张拉破坏转变,裂纹分布区的分形维数和模型的损伤度降低。
[21] Wang, Yenan,Bobaru, Florin .Intersonic crack propagation in fiber-reinforced composites with an improved peridynamic model[J].International Journal of Fracture,2026,250 (2):29-29,SPRINGER
摘要：We introduce an improved peridynamic (PD) model for dynamic fracture in fiber reinforced composites (FRCs). We verify it on elastodynamic and elastostatic problems and test it against the intersonic crack propagation experiment by Coker and Rosakis (2001). When a notched unidirectional FRC lamina is loaded by asymmetric impact, cracks can reach intersonic speeds of propagation. Using the PD model we explain the mechanism of crack initiation and propagation. We predict experimentally observed crack patterns, the crack propagation speed behavior, and the shockwaves generated by the propagating crack. When the PD horizon size is of a similar scale with the actual notch size used in the experiments, the match between computed and experimental results becomes quantitative. This is related to the crack nucleation process and is strength driven. The new PD composite model is calibrated with a homogenized classical model but maintains the sharp distinction between longitudinal and transverse bonds (jump discontinuity in their elastic stiffness), preserving this microstructure information (anisotropy) of the composite. We show that PD models for FRCs in which the micro-scale variation of PD bonds moduli mimics the continuous tension surface of homogenized composite cannot capture the observed failure behavior. Preservation of some essential features pertaining to failure initiation/behavior from the micro-scale, which the present PD model does, appears to be critical in predicting dynamic failure in FRCs using homogenized models.
[22] Yang Du,Yixiao Sun,Yuanqi Liu ,等.Modeling dynamic fracture of hydrogen pipe burst incorporating HELP and hydrogen solid solution strengthening mechanism[J].International Journal of Impact Engineering,2026,209 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A constitutive model that simultaneously incorporates hydrogen enhanced localized plasticity (HELP) and hydrogen solid solution strengthening was developed. By writing the VUMAT subroutine, it was developed to predict dynamic fracture of hydrogen pipe burst. Burst experiments were conducted on hydrogen-charged pipes with hydrogen concentrations ranging from 0 to 8.70 ppm, and the numerical model was verified in terms of crack propagation behaviors and fracture patterns. Internal gas decompression, crack propagation behavior, crack length and speed were obtained and analyzed in detail. The results showed that the cracks on both sides of the uncharged pipe propagated axially for a certain distance and then stopped. In contrast, the hydrogen-charged pipe exhibited similar initial axial cracks propagation but subsequently both branched, and the branching cracks propagated along the pipe in the circumferential direction. The fracture behavior of the hydrogen-charged pipe was more severe, with pronounced plastic deformation observed in the middle section. Compared to the case of 0 ppm, the axial crack length of hydrogen-charged pipe was reduced by 50-60 mm at 3.46 ppm and by 80-100 mm at 8.70 ppm. Moreover, hydrogen ingress accelerated the crack propagation speed, the maximum crack propagation speed increased by approximately 7 m/s for each 1 ppm increase in hydrogen concentration. It was further revealed that under the damage constitutive model considering the HELP mechanism, the incorporation of hydrogen solid solution strengthening reduced plastic deformation and slowed damage accumulation, thereby delaying crack branching. Compared with the existing models, the constructed model is more accurate in dynamic damage and fracture prediction analysis. It is more consistent with the experiment results.
[23] Zhiqian Zhang,Yixuan Sun,Wei Liu ,等.Dynamic mixed-mode I/II fracture of sharp V-notched rocks: a combined MFFM and DIC study[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2026,339 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The crack initiation mechanism in deep rock mass engineering under dynamic impact loading is a key scientific issue crucial for ensuring engineering safety. However, there is still a lack of systematic research on the propagation behavior and evolution mechanism of the inherent sharp V-notch in actual rock masses under dynamic loading. To address this issue, this study systematically investigates the effect of loading rate on the dynamic fracture behavior of rock specimens containing sharp V-notches under mixed-mode I/II conditions. Dynamic experiments were conducted using a split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) system combined with ultra-high-speed imaging. First, the dynamic fracture process was captured in real time using ultra-high-speed imaging. The two-dimensional displacement field on the specimen surface was then derived through digital image correlation (DIC). This was followed by an inverse analysis, where the over-deterministic method was applied to the displacement data to determine the dynamic notch stress intensity factor (NSIF) at the tip of the sharp V-notch. A comprehensive investigation was conducted into how the notch opening angle, inclination angle, and loading rate influence dynamic notch fracture toughness prior to macroscopic crack initiation. Finally, by incorporating crack incubation time and time-accumulation effects into the finite fracture mechanics framework, a modified finite fracture mechanics (MFFM) model is developed to characterize the rate-dependent dynamic fracture toughness in a more physically consistent manner. The influences of geometric parameters and loading conditions on critical crack propagation, crack initiation angles, and mixed-mode fracture toughness are systematically revealed. The predictions of the proposed MFFM fracture criterion show good agreement with experimental observations obtained from DIC as well as with previously reported experimental results. Based on these results, a unified theoretical–experimental fr
[24] Yiming Ma,Fang Li,Hong Tian ,等.Multiscale study of laser-induced dynamic fracture: phenomena, mechanisms and applications[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2026,331 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper provides a systematic review of the cross-scale effects of laser irradiation on the dynamic fracture mechanical properties of metal alloys, ceramics, polymers, and composite materials, as well as the relevant research methods. The transient nature and multi-physics fields coupling characteristics of dynamic fracture make it challenging to predict and control. This study integrates theoretical models, experimental techniques (e.g., hopkinson pressure bar, high-speed digital image correlation techniques), and multiscale simulations (molecular dynamics, phase-field modeling, and the finite-element method) to reveal laser-induced thermal-force-phase transformation coupling effects and their regulatory mechanisms on crack paths. Research results indicate that laser parameters (such as power density and pulse width) can introduce specific microstructural defects by regulating the distribution of thermal stresses, residual stress, and microstructural evolution, thereby altering the stress intensity factor at the crack tip and causing changes in crack propagation patterns. Innovative strategies, such as ultrafast laser gradient power processing and intelligent material design, can actively inhibit crack propagation and enhance structural safety in extreme environments. Future research should focus on the deep coupling of multiphysics fields, artificial intelligence-driven parameter optimization, and the dynamic fracture mechanism of quantum materials, so as to promote the development of dynamic fracture mechanics towards higher precision and adaptability.
[25] Meichang Zhang,Xiaohe Wang,Qinglong Yun ,等.Fracture mechanical properties and influence mechanism of coal samples with different moisture contents under dynamic load[J].Results in Engineering,2026,29 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To investigate the fracture mechanical response of water-bearing coal under coupled dynamic loading and water pressure, coal samples from the No 22 coal seam of the Hanjiawa Coal Industry Company were selected as the research objects. An improved SHPB system, together with a crack propagation meter, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), was used to conduct dynamic fracture tests on coal samples with different water contents. The microstructure and internal pore–fracture characteristics of coal samples were analyzed, and the mechanism of water-induced weakening was examined from a microscopic perspective. The results show that water has a significant influence on the microstructure of the coal samples. As water content increases, both the number and size of internal cracks increase, and water promotes the formation of secondary cracks. When the coal becomes saturated, its structural integrity deteriorates significantly. Higher water content leads to lower fracture toughness. Increasing water content causes most water-bearing coal to generate more secondary cracks. The development of numerous cracks inhibits further crack propagation, resulting in a significant reduction in propagation velocity and potentially causing crack arrest. Therefore, under dynamic loading, water significantly reduces crack propagation speed, and greater water content leads to smaller fragment sizes after failure. The fracture toughness of water-bearing coal exhibits strong rate dependence. Under dynamic loading, enhanced inertia and viscous stresses in water-bearing coal dominate the fracture process, and the fracture toughness of saturated coal may exceed that of dry coal.
[26] Lei Chen,Wenjing Yang,Jianping Zhou ,等.Experimental investigation on full-scale fracture behavior and dynamic response of supercritical CO2 pipelines with N2 impurities[J].International Journal of Pressure Vessels and Piping,2026,221 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To address the safety risks associated with pipeline fractures in carbon capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS) systems, this study constructed a full-scale experimental platform for supercritical CO<sub>2</sub> pipelines containing impurities and conducted systematic fracture tests under three sets of conditions with varying initial pressures (9.8–11.6 MPa) and N<sub>2</sub> molar concentrations (2 %–4 %). A self-developed data acquisition system, integrated with high-frequency pressure transducers, T-type armored thermocouples, and a high-speed camera (capturing crack propagation processes), was employed to monitor the dynamic evolutions of pressure, temperature, decompression wave propagation, and crack tip behavior during pipeline fracture. The results indicated that pipeline fracture induced four distinct pressure change stages: rapid decline (Stage Ⅰ), pressure oscillation (Stage Ⅱ), negative exponential decline (Stage Ⅲ), and static leakage (Stage Ⅳ). Axially, the internal temperature decreased first near the fracture and later at locations farther from it; vertically, the minimum temperature at all measuring points predominantly occurred at the pipeline bottom. The decompression wave velocity exhibited a linear decrease in Stage Ⅰ, formed a “pressure plateau” in Stage Ⅱ, and decreased irregularly in Stages Ⅲ–Ⅳ due to subcooled and superheated states caused by pressure instability. Higher initial pressure and N<sub>2</sub> molar concentration both contributed to an increase in the initial decompression wave velocity and the “pressure plateau” value. Additionally, the self-designed fracture recording system successfully captured the complete process of pipeline failure, crack initiation, ductile propagation, and arrest. The crack tip opening angle (<em>CTOA</em>) fluctuated within 14.3°–21.2° along the propagation path and showed a gradual decreasing trend, while the crack propagation velocity first increased, maintained a stable phase, and then decreased. N
[27] Kroon, Martin .Steady-state mode I crack propagation in a brittle solid[J].International Journal of Fracture,2026,250 (2):21-21,SPRINGER
摘要：A steady-state, finite element analysis of brittle, dynamic crack propagation in PMMA is presented. The steady-state assumption means that all time derivatives are translated into a spatial derivative instead. The bulk PMMA is modelled as a linear elastic, isotropic material. The crack is modelled by use of a non-standard cohesive zone model that ensures that material stability is maintained. The cohesive zone contains two lengths, which allows for a regularisation of the crack problem. The boundary conditions were adjusted so that the results could be compared to experimental studies. The stress and strain fields at the crack tip resulting from the numerical analysis were shown, and the possible implications for damage evolution and crack branching were discussed. The study supports the idea that microcracks are initiated at some distance from the crack plane and then grow and join the main crack. The study suggests that the propagating crack goes from a 'simple crack' to an unstable crack when the peak in the maximum principal strain - which appears at some distance from the crack plane - exceeds the dynamic fracture strain of the material.
[28] Xu, Yan,Yang, Juan,Chen, Jing ,等.Dynamic propagation of a moving crack in a functionally graded one-dimensional hexagonal quasicrystal strip[J].Zeitschrift für angewandte Mathematik und Physik,2026,77 (2):78-78,SPRINGER INT PUBL AG
摘要：Using the integral transformation method, this study investigates the dynamic propagation problem of a moving crack in a functionally graded one-dimensional hexagonal quasicrystal strip. A Yoffe-type constant-velocity crack model was adopted. The boundary value problem of the partial differential equation was transformed into two pairs of dual integral equations through Fourier cosine transform, which are then solved by the Copson method. The stress field distribution near the crack tip was obtained. Expressions for the dynamic stress intensity factors (DSIFs) and the dynamic energy release rate of the phonon and phason fields were further derived. A numerical simulation was conducted to analyze the influences of material gradient parameters, crack velocity, crack length, strip thickness, phonon-phason coupling coefficient, and external load on the fracture behavior. The research results are expected to provide a theoretical basis for the fracture performance evaluation and gradient optimization design of functionally graded quasicrystals under dynamic loading.
[29] Guo, Dongming,Wang, Hengkai,Zhang, Wei ,等.Effects of Delay Blasting on Crack Propagation in Defective Empty Hole[J].Fatigue & Fracture of Engineering Materials & Structures,2026,WILEY
摘要：To investigate the effects of delay blasting on crack propagation in a defective empty hole, this study employed dynamic caustics experiments and numerical simulation to analyze crack propagation behavior and stress distribution. The results show that the stress waves' superposition enhances dynamic mechanical parameters (including crack propagation velocity, dynamic stress intensity factors [DSIFs], and energy release rates) at the crack tip, especially during the initial phase. When boreholes are detonated simultaneously or when the borehole near the empty hole is detonated first with a short delay, the interaction between the stress waves from the remote borehole and the running crack significantly enhances dynamic mechanical parameters and promotes crack propagation. When the delay time is long, the stress waves from the remote borehole can induce the crack to initiate again, and the dynamic mechanical parameters are higher than in the first phase. Additionally, because of the diffraction of stress waves in the empty hole, the hoop tensile stress on the back blasting side initially increases and subsequently decreases with increasing distance. These research results provide a reference for optimizing delay times and improving rock breaking efficiency.
[30] 朱子君,张建同 .基于扩展有限元法的裂纹扩展分析[J].山西建筑,2026,52 (3):60-63
摘要：针对结构断裂模拟中裂纹动态演化的数值计算需求,文中分析了扩展有限元法这一核心研究工具。此方法的关键是在于对传统有限元位移模式进行扩展:裂纹两侧的位移非连续特性是通过Heaviside阶跃函数进行模拟的,裂尖区域的应力奇异分布是通过裂尖渐进位移场函数精确来描述。结合水平集法对裂纹扩展路径进行几何表征与动态追踪,从而实现了在不依赖网格重构的情况下预测裂纹的生长轨迹。基于带中心圆孔的紧凑拉伸试样裂纹扩展模拟分析,得出如下结论:扩展有限元法在实现裂纹扩展模拟方面兼具效能与效率;试样中的圆孔会干扰裂纹前缘的扩展方向,但这种干扰效应仅在裂纹尖端与圆孔距离处于特定区间内时才较为显著。
[31] 闻磊,冯文杰,李明烨 ,等.不同加载条件下含裂隙岩石裂纹扩展特征及能量演化机制试验研究[J].实验力学,2025,40 (1):30-48
摘要：为对比不同加载条件下含裂隙岩石的破坏模式特征及其与试样能量演化之间的关系,以相同尺寸含裂隙红砂岩为静态、动态加载试验对象,分别采用液压伺服刚性压力机和分离式霍普金森压杆(SHPB)系统进行试样的静态单轴压缩试验以及冲击加载试验,得到相应静态、动态应力-应变曲线,配合摄像系统获得不同加载条件下试样裂纹扩展路径,并对比分析了静态加载、不同强度冲击加载条件下试样的裂纹扩展模式、压缩强度、能量特征。结果表明:裂纹萌生和扩展与预制裂隙角度、应变率关系密切,与静载试样相比,冲击动载试样出现了拉伸-剪切混合裂纹、离层裂纹以及更多的远场裂纹;中应变率范围内,随应变率增加,含预制裂隙岩样出现了由拉伸裂纹为主向X状剪切破坏的转变;试样压缩强度与裂纹扩展模式相关,试样吸收总能量与静态、动态单轴压缩强度近似呈线性关系,不同加载条件下,45°试样压缩强度均最低;静态加载条件下,不同产状预制裂纹的存在使试样储能极限、延脆性特征发生不同程度的改变;动态加载条件下,应变率越大,试样吸能越高,破碎耗能密度、能量耗散率越大,同时试样裂纹角度对破碎耗能密度和能量耗散率的影响越显著;相对静载条件,动载条件下试样破碎耗能密度的主要影响因素更加多样和复杂。
[32] Hu Zhang,Ning Luo,Yabo Chai ,等.Dynamic Fracture Evolution Mechanisms in Bedded Shale with Multiple Pre-Existing Flaws: Cohesive Element Modeling and Experimental Verification[J].Energy & Fuels,2026,40 (15):7886-7903,American Chemical Society
摘要：In situ deflagration fracturing technology for shale gas aims to construct complex fracture networks through dynamic loading, and elucidating the dynamic fracture behavior of shale is crucial for understanding the formation of such networks. The dynamic fracture evolution characteristics in multiple pre-existing flaw shale were simulated utilizing a combined cohesive zone method (CZM), that characteristic shale including varying bedding angles, central circular holes, and multiangle fracture combinations. To theoretically elucidate the fracture mechanisms, the CZM was established and validated by means of experimental data based on the split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) impact test combined with high-speed photography and three-dimensional digital image correlation (3D-DIC). Numerical simulations reveal that fracture initiation is governed by the competing mechanisms between the central hole and pre-existing crack. Specifically, for pre-existing crack inclination angles of 0, 30, 45, and 60°, dynamic crack propagation initiates from the tips of the pre-existing cracks. Notably, the deflection angle of the initial crack exhibits a positive correlation with the inclination of the pre-existing crack. Conversely, at an angle of 90°, the fracture initiation location shifts toward the vicinity of the central hole. Furthermore, the simulation highlights that the bedding structure strictly constrains the propagation paths of secondary cracks, inducing significant anisotropy. 3D-DIC analysis quantitatively characterizes the evolution of full-field strain and displacement, revealing that the strain concentration zone systematically migrates from the pre-existing crack tips to the periphery of the central hole as the inclination angle increases. Concurrently, the evolution of localized displacement bands and shear strain accumulation verifies a distinct transition in failure mechanisms from tensile-dominated fracture to a mixed tensile-shear mode. Ultimately, the experimental
[33] Xiaodong Wu,Ziting Jia,Lianhao An ,等.Enhancement of dynamic fracture toughness in biomimetic 3D printed double-helicoidal composites[J].International Journal of Impact Engineering,2025,198 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The dynamic fracture behaviors of biomimetic 3D printed double-helicoidal composites were fully characterized by performing three-point bending impact experiments and simulations in this study. Initially, the biomimetic composites were designed and fabricated based on the structure of collagenous fibrils, while single-helicoidal composites were also prepared for comparison. Subsequently, the impact responses and the crack modes of the biomimetic composites were obtained by conducting impact experiments. The dynamic fracture toughness of the biomimetic composites was assessed using the effective surface energy and dynamic stress intensity factor. Finally, finite element analysis was employed to analyze the interlayer stress distribution and the crack propagation under impact loading. Our investigation clearly demonstrates that double-helicoidal structures exhibit superior dynamic fracture toughness, as they suppress crack initiation and increase the energy dissipation required for crack propagation. This work will promote the design of next-generation impact-resistant composites.
[34] Huashuai Zhang,Huimei Zhang,Shiguan Chen ,等.Dynamic mechanical behavior and damage constitutive model of sandstone with various fracture inclinations under impact loading after different freeze–thaw cycles[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2026,141, Part B ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The stability of rock engineering in cold regions is significantly influenced by the coupled effects of freeze–thaw (FT)cycles and dynamic loading, with the geometry of rock bridges playing a key role. This study investigates the dynamic crack propagation and fracture behavior of sandstone containing prefabricated fissures under combined FT cycles and impact loading, considering different rock bridge inclination angles (<em>α</em> = 48°, 66°, 90°). Full-field strain evolution and crack development were quantitatively characterized using digital image correlation (DIC) and high-speed photography. Changes in pore structure and dynamic mechanical responses were further analyzed through nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) tests. DIC results indicate that crack initiation location, propagation path, and velocity are strongly controlled by the rock bridge inclination angle: As <em>α</em> increases, cracks tend to propagate along the bridge direction, leading to rapid penetration and a reduction in dynamic strength. FT cycles exacerbate damage, transforming crack patterns from localized to dispersed and shifting failure modes from tensile-dominated to tension–shear mixed. A macro–mesoscopic coupled constitutive model incorporating FT damage and fissure geometry was established. Model predictions show excellent agreement with experimental data, with coefficients of determination <em>R</em><sup>2</sup> greater than 0.93, average peak strength relative error below 2.29 %, and most peak strain errors within 10 %. This study provides both experimental and theoretical support for the stability assessment of rock structures in cold regions
[35] Jiale Ji,Fucheng Tian,Shuyu Chen ,等.Dynamic cracks in strips: revealing local effects in brittle fracture[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2026,331 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Classical dynamic fracture theory faces tough challenges, as the predicted limiting crack propagation speeds often deviate from experimental observations in many materials. This discrepancy arises from the assumption that crack dynamics are governed by global energy balance, whereas recent studies highlight the local nature of the process. A potential explanation lies in the alteration of material properties near the crack tip. While elastic modulus is typically assumed constant in a linear elastic regime, the local nonlinearity at the crack tip invalidates this assumption. To understand how this local property regulates crack dynamics, we introduce hard and soft strips into homogeneous linear elastic materials and investigate their dynamic fracture behavior using a phase-field model without wave-speed degradation. Our findings reveal an intrinsic local scale in brittle fracture, offering new insights into dynamic fracture theory and phase-field modeling.
[36] Junjun Feng,Wangyuan Liu,Ting Zhang ,等.Influence of moisture desorption on dynamic mode I fracture behavior and crack propagation of coal: Experimental and theoretical Insights[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,139 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Moisture desorption poses a significant challenge to coalbed methane (CBM) recovery in high-temperature coal reservoirs. This study investigated the effect of moisture desorption on mode I fracture of notched semi-circular bending (NSCB) coal samples using a split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) system. A high-speed camera was used to record the dynamic crack propagation, and image processing methods were used to analyze the crack propagation characteristics. The results show that increasing the moisture desorption rate from 0% to 100% improves the dynamic fracture toughness by 37%. In addition, the crack propagation speed and crack tip opening displacement (CTOD) are increased by 28% and nearly 100%, respectively. The moisture desorption rate is positively correlated with the dynamic fracture toughness, crack propagation speed, and CTOD, which indicates that moisture desorption improves mode I fracture toughness and promotes crack propagation. Furthermore, the mechanisms by which moisture desorption affects coal microstructure were elucidated using an optical microscope, and a theoretical model was proposed to explain the effects of moisture desorption. The model suggests that the matrix contraction force induced by moisture desorption promotes crack propagation, while the surface tension and viscous resistance of the moisture inhibit it. As moisture desorbs, the effects of surface tension and viscous resistance decrease, thereby promoting crack propagation. The results provide theoretical guidance for enhancing CBM recovery in high-temperature coal reservoirs.
[37] Jia-Jun Xu,Xiao-Wei Ye,Wei-Ming Que ,等.Automatic identification, tracking and 3D quantification of structure crack initiation and propagation[J].Structures,2026,87 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Crack is a crucial indicator for assessing the degree of structural damage. Early detection and accurate evaluation of cracks are critical for structural health monitoring and maintenance. The study proposes an automated methodology for identifying, tracking, and quantifying crack initiation and propagation in steel structures. The approach utilizes a recognition method based on grayscale feature analysis and the improved DeepLabV3 + neural network, combined with a crack 3D quantification method (length-width-depth), achieving comprehensive and dynamic assessments of cracks. Dynamic fatigue test was conducted on an orthotropic steel bridge deck segment, capturing crack evolution under controlled conditions. Approximately 237,600 images were collected over 66 h, from which 450 representative images were processed for crack detection and analysis. Results reveal a four-stage crack evolution process: damage initiation stage, micro-crack formation stage, micro-crack connectivity and propagation stage, and crack depth expansion and fracture stage. Notably, significant surface crack development constitutes only 15.4% of the crack lifecycle, with rapid expansion upon surface emergence. The high-sensitivity automatic recognition and 3D quantification method proposed in this study enables early detection, dynamic tracking, and precise measurement of crack propagation, contributing to more comprehensive and effective structural safety maintenance.
[38] Mu, Pengyu,Li, Xiangshang,Yang, Liyun ,等.The effect of joint filling materials on crack propagation under dynamic load[J].Mechanics of Advanced Materials and Structures,2025,33 (1),TAYLOR & FRANCIS INC
摘要：The filling medium in joints has a significant influence on the impact fracture behavior of rock masses. Three-point bending impact fracture experiments were conducted on specimens with prefabricated cracks containing filling materials using a dynamic caustics experimental method combined with a high-speed camera to investigate the effect of joint filling materials on crack propagation under dynamic loading. Additionally, numerical simulations were performed to analyze the effect of filling materials on crack propagation under dynamic loading. The results indicate that the propagation of Crack A is primarily controlled by the Mode I stress intensity factor at the tip of the vertical prefabricated crack. The filling medium within the horizontal prefabricated crack has no significant effect on the initiation or propagation of the vertical prefabricated crack. However, the filling medium has a profound impact on the initiation time and propagation trajectory of the secondary Crack B. The stronger the filling medium, the greater the energy required for the initiation of Crack B, and the longer the time needed for Crack B to penetrate the specimen. Furthermore, the fracture point of Crack B deviates further from the hammer impact point as the strength of the filling medium increases, exhibiting characteristics of a typical mixed-mode I-II crack. The numerical simulation results also confirm that the type of filling medium primarily affects the propagation trajectory of the secondary Crack B, aligning closely with the experimental findings.
[39] Yue Chen,Fei Han,Wei Xie .A time-dependent bond failure criterion for dynamic fracture in peridynamics[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2026,187 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Peridynamics excels at modeling fracture but often relies on failure criteria that evaluate bonds instantaneously, neglecting the time-dependent nature of damage accumulation under dynamic loading. To bridge this gap, this paper introduces a novel incubation time bond failure criterion within the peridynamics framework. The criterion determines bond rupture not by the instantaneous state but by the time-averaged deformation over a characteristic incubation period, thereby incorporating the crucial temporal dimension of the fracture process. To mitigate the associated computational cost of tracking bond history, an adaptive implementation strategy is proposed, which activates the history-intensive calculation only for bonds approaching a critical state. The accuracy and efficiency of the proposed methodology are validated through several benchmark problems, including a plate tensile test, the Kalthoff–Winkler experiment, and dynamic fracture of a beam with an offset edge crack. Comparative results demonstrate that, unlike the classical critical stretch criterion, the proposed approach consistently delays crack initiation, reduces crack propagation speed, and yields crack paths and lengths in agreement with experimental data. This work provides a robust and practical time-dependent framework for high-fidelity simulation of dynamic fracture in brittle materials.
[40] Wu, Zhixiang,Zhang, Guobao,Xie, Mowen ,等.Study on Crack Propagation and Dynamic Characteristic Evolution of Cantilevered Unstable Rock Masses Based on XFEM[J].Applied Sciences,2026,16 (5),MDPI
摘要：Cantilevered unstable rock masses constitute a prevalent geological hazard, with their stability intrinsically governed by the depth of trailing edge cracks. Traditional stability assessment methods, which largely rely on static calculations or displacement monitoring, often suffer from poor timeliness and insufficient early warning capabilities. To address these limitations, this study employs the Extended Finite Element Method (XFEM) to simulate the natural crack propagation trajectory and investigate the associated dynamic response characteristics under loading. The simulation results demonstrate that XFEM effectively captures the natural "vertical-to-oblique" fracture morphology, overcoming the limitations of pre-defined crack models. A critical correlation is established between crack evolution and natural frequency: the first-order natural frequency exhibits a staged decline, characterized by a precipitous drop of approximately 7 Hz during the late stage of fracture development (80-97% depth). Consequently, a "crack evolution-frequency response" model is proposed. This model confirms that natural frequency is a significantly more sensitive indicator of internal damage than displacement, providing a novel theoretical foundation and technical pathway for the early identification and dynamic evaluation of rock mass stability.
[41] Yang Ding,Kai-Jie Cao,Jian-Bing Wu ,等.Fatigue life assessment of steel bridge decks considering dynamic crack propagation[J].Structures,2026,89 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Fatigue cracking at steel bridge deck-U-rib welding joints is critical, as traditional methods ignore time-varying crack propagation, causing life prediction deviations. This study integrates fracture mechanics with FRANC3D-ABAQUS (F-A) technology to investigate dynamic propagation’s impact and proposes a data-model hybrid-driven assessment method. Taking Jiashao Bridge as a case, numerical analyses cover linear cracks with different depths and angles, semi-elliptical cracks with varying shape ratios and double cracks with different spacings. Results show that considering dynamic propagation shortens fatigue life, intensifying over cycles: for an initial linear crack depth of 1 mm, the stress amplitude with dynamic propagation decreases by 12.32% compared to the scenario without it after 500,000 cycles, and the reduction further widens to 41.06% after 1,000,000 cycles. When the straight-line distance between the two ends of the crack is constant, the 90° cracks are most unfavorable; semi-elliptical cracks stabilize at shape ratio 0.35. Smaller double-crack spacing accelerates failure, with negligible interaction at spacing equal to crack horizontal length.
[42] Heliang You,Meizhen Xiang,Yuhang Jing ,等.A strain gradient elastodynamic phase field model for dynamic fracture in heterogeneous materials by multiscale asymptotic homogenization[J].International Journal of Solids and Structures,2026,334 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The macroscopic fracture strength and crack propagation behavior of heterogeneous materials are strongly governed by their underlying microstructures. When the characteristic scale of microstructures becomes comparable to that of the macroscopic structure, strain rate and strain gradient effects play a crucial role in dynamic fracture. In this work, we extend our recently proposed quasi-static strain gradient phase field model to the dynamic regime. The framework consistently integrates microstructural size, strain gradient, strain rate, and phase field evolution within a unified variational energy formulation, and provides mathematically consistent definitions of higher-order constitutive tensors without relying on empirical assumptions. A penalty-based computational strategy is adopted to ensure numerical efficiency while avoiding higher-order continuity requirements. Benchmark simulations demonstrate that the model accurately captures key features of dynamic fracture, including crack branching and propagation velocity, with excellent mesh objectivity. Applications to fiber-reinforced composites and porous materials further confirm the model’s capability to reproduce fracture anisotropy, porosity-dependent dynamic fracture behavior, and experimentally observed damage zones and free-surface velocity histories in spallation problems.
[43] Jingwei Ying,Yanchun Xu,Jianzhuang Xiao ,等.Multiscale damage evolution and crack propagation mechanisms in recycled concrete under static and dynamic loading: A cohesive zone model approach[J].Composite Structures,2026,375 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This research introduces a three-dimensional cohesive zone model that incorporates realistic mesostructural characteristics to investigate the multiscale evolution of damage and crack propagation mechanisms in recycled aggregate concrete (RAC) under both static and dynamic loading conditions. The study systematically examines how factors such as aggregate distribution, volume fraction, replacement ratio, specimen size, and strain rate influence the mechanical behavior and fracture patterns of RAC. The findings reveal that, under static loading, the spatial heterogeneity of recycled aggregates increases stress concentrations at the weaker interface transition zone (ITZ), leading to a transition from single crack failure modes to multiple crack failures. In dynamic loading scenarios, the interplay between size effects and strain rate plays a crucial role in determining fracture behavior. Higher strain rates exacerbate inertial effects, resulting in comminuted failure. To enhance understanding, a theoretical framework is proposed that connects surface crack patterns with internal damage. This framework not only facilitates performance predictions for RAC but also contributes to advancements in sustainable concrete design.
[44] 刘哲,李伟兵,罗渝松 ,等.内爆载荷作用下金属柱壳轴向裂纹扩展及动态破碎性能[J].南京理工大学学报,2025,49 (6):652-660
摘要：为了研究内爆载荷下金属柱壳的膨胀断裂机制,该文采用AUTODYN仿真软件对内爆加载下40CrMnSiB钢柱壳的轴向裂纹扩展过程进行了数值模拟,并结合水井回收试验对壳体的动态破碎性能进行了分析,得到了不同壁厚下金属柱壳轴向裂纹扩展及动态破碎性能。结果表明:不同相对壁厚下轴向裂纹数量均为两端少中间多,且相同位置处的裂纹数随着壳体相对壁厚的减小而减小,不同相对壁厚下壳体表面出现的最大裂纹数由19条减少到了8条,减少了57.89%;随着相对壁厚的减小,裂纹向非起爆端的汇聚速度整体呈现下降的趋势。随着相对壁厚的减小,壳体的破碎参数逐渐减小,由相对壁厚为6时的824.96减小到了相对壁厚为1.76时的386.17。该研究为动态载荷下金属柱壳的结构设计优化与破碎性能调控提供了依据。
[45] Peiwang Cao,Tao Zhou,Xiaoling Zhao ,等.Investigating dynamic mixed-mode I/II fracture behavior of sandstone using the modified generalized maximum tangential stress criterion[J].Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering,2026,18 (3):2075-2086,Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：Dynamic mixed-mode I/II crack growth under various engineering disturbances can result in rock failure and even catastrophic ***,the dynamic cracking behaviour of rock and fracture criterion for mixed-mode I/II remain poorly *** straight-through Brazilian disc tests were performed on sandstone specimens to examine the effects of strain rate(ε˙)and loading angle(β)on the dynamic fracture behaviour of mixed-mode I/II using a split Hopkinson pressure bar *** generalized maximum tangential stress(GMTS)criterion was modified by considering the influence ofβand crack propagation velocity(CPV)to estimate the dynamic fracture *** results indicate that the CPV increases with increasingε˙,while remaining nearly independent ofβ.βandε˙strongly affect the dynamic mixed-mode fracturing *** crack initiation angle changes slightly with increasingε˙,and it first increases and then stabilizes asβ***βexceeds 60°andε˙is lower than approximately 10^(2)s^(−1),the crack initiation location transitions from the crack tip to the centre region of the ***ε˙is greater than approximately 10^(2)s^(−1),the non-tip cracking disappears *** dynamic failure characteristics of specimens can be divided into four main types,which occur successively with increasingβandε˙.Additionally,the dynamic stress intensity factors and crack initiation angles predicted by the modified GMTS criterion are generally consistent with the experimental results for different *** study provides valuable insights into the detailed dynamic mixed-mode cracking behaviour and fracture criterion of rock.
[46] Tianyu He,Fuminori Yanagimoto,Yun-Jae Kim ,等.Effects of structural details on brittle crack arrestability in thick cross-joint components under different propagation scenarios[J].Marine Structures,2026,109 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Brittle fracture poses significant risks in large container ships; therefore, enhancing brittle crack arrestability is essential for structural integrity. While structural design offers a promising route, a critical gap remains: the lack of quantitative understanding regarding how realistic crack propagation scenarios influence brittle crack arrestability. This study addresses this gap by investigating thick cross-joint components—critical welded details that connect the deck plate and hatch coaming and play a decisive role in maintaining the safety of container ships—under three realistic scenarios: Scenario Zero (S0), without discontinuities, simulating full penetration welding; Scenario One (S1), with discontinuities, crack propagation from hatch coaming to deck; Scenario Two (S2), also with discontinuities but in the reverse direction. Specimens were designed for crack arrest tests to simulate these scenarios using PMMA capable of capturing high-speed crack propagation/arrest behaviour, similar to that observed in steel, in situ. Experimental results demonstrated that discontinuities significantly improved crack arrestability in S1 but had negligible effect in S2. To further analyse these effects, a high-fidelity s-version-finite-element-based framework was employed to simulate high-speed crack propagation/arrest behaviour. Numerical results revealed that, compared to S0, discontinuities reduced the dynamic stress intensity factor by up to 44% in S1—equivalent to using materials with an arrest toughness increased by nearly 80%—while showing negligible effect in S2. These findings provide the quantitative and mechanistic clarification of how structural details affect brittle crack arrestability and offer both scientific insight and practical design guidance for improving the safety of large welded marine structures.
[47] Long, Anfa,Zhang, Yongfa,Zhao, Yu ,等.Directional Hydraulic Fracturing in Lushan Shale: Effects of Stress Magnitude and Pre-crack Angle on Fracture Propagation[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2026,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：Directional hydraulic fracturing (DHF) is a favored approach to extract unconventional oil and gas resources. The ambient stress (geological factor) and the pre-crack angle (engineering factor) exert a significant impact on the breakdown pressure and fracture complexity. To gain a comprehensive understanding of the impact of stress magnitude (sigma) and pre-crack angle (theta) on the fracturing effectiveness, we conducted DHF experiments on Lushan shale samples with five different axial stresses and five varying pre-crack angles. We monitored the dynamic propagation of hydraulic fractures using an acoustic emission (AE) system and a high-speed camera and subsequently analyzed the fracture pattern using a fluorescent tracer and an optical microscope. The results showed that at low axial stresses (sigma < 10 MPa), fractures propagated primarily along bedding planes, forming single, bedding-parallel fractures;at moderate stress levels (10-20 MPa), fractures preferentially followed pre-crack orientations and developed increasingly complex networks;and at excessively high axial stresses, bedding activation was inhibited, constraining the formation of complex fracture patterns. Higher differential stresses reduced fracture initiation and breakdown pressures owing to stress concentration and preferential propagation along pre-existing cracks, whereas bedding activation at low stresses could lead to abnormally low pressures, consistent with AE evolution. Increasing pre-crack angles generally elevated fracture pressures and promoted shear/mixed-mode cracking, with maximum fracture complexity occurring at theta = 45 degrees. Lower pre-crack angles favored axial, continuous fracture propagation, whereas larger angles triggered bedding activation and fracture arrest, limiting fracture development and complexity. These findings provide mechanistic insights into the interplay of stress, pre-crack orientation, and bedding in controlling shale hydraulic fracture initiation, propaga
[48] M. Ciavarella .Dynamic fracture in DCB specimen loaded by end moments[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,321 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Dynamic fracture depends on a delicate interplay of the dynamic Energy Release Rate (ERR) <span class="math"><math><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">G</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">d</mi></mrow></msub></math></span> which is the static value <span class="math"><math><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">G</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">s</mi></mrow></msub></math></span> as reduced by inertia terms depending on crack speed and sometimes acceleration, and the dynamic toughness <span class="math"><math><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">Γ</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">d</mi></mrow></msub></math></span> which generally varies with crack speed. We review some basic results on Double Cantilever Beam specimen, and make a simple analysis of a DCB under remote bending loads applied slowly. We comment that smooth propagation ensues here contrary to the case discussed in the literature where the loading the end by a constant displacement rate, a very complex non-linearly oscillating velocity results, possibly leading to crack arrest (stick–slip) and which is only partly captured by present models, making difficult the determination of the dynamic toughness.
[49] Yiheng Zhang,Xiaobin Li,Wei Chen ,等.Dynamic mixed mode I/II fracture toughness and failure behaviour of freshwater ice under impact loading[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,135 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The dynamic mixed mode I/II fracture toughness of ice involves its fracture resistance under complex impact loading, which is essential for impact or blasting parameter selection and evaluation. The notched semi-circular bend (SCB) method was applied to determine the dynamic mixed mode I/II fracture toughness of freshwater ice based on a modified split Hopkinson pressure bar setup. The effects of loading rate and grain size on the mixed mode I/II fracture toughness of ice were comprehensively explored. A high-speed digital camera was adopted to record the crack propagation path and measure the crack propagation velocity. The experimental results indicate that the dynamic effective fracture toughness of SCB ice samples is dependent on the loading rate, particularly for mode I dominated loading. The dynamic fracture toughness decreases as the grain size increases from 0.8 to 4.5 mm. Subsequently, the fracture resistance was compared with the theoretical predictions based on some brittle fracture criteria. The generalized maximum tangential stress-based semi-analytical (SA-GMTS) criterion provides a good prediction for the dynamic mixed mode I/II fracture toughness of ice. For mixed mode I/II, the crack propagation velocities rise with the increase of loading rates. However, the grain size has little effect on the velocities. These results improve the understanding of the dynamic complex fracturing mechanism in ice engineering applications.
[50] Evgeny V. Shilko,Aleksandr S. Grigoriev .Understanding the properties of the cohesive zone in dynamic shear fracture[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,315 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The velocity and stability of dynamic crack growth in brittle solids are determined by complex, lower-scale structure-driven processes in the cohesive zone where crack increment is formed. To find out how the rate of these processes controls the evolution of the cohesive zone and finally crack propagation regime, we applied an original mechanical model of fracture that takes into account the finite incubation time of local fracture and the relationship between the fracture time and the rate of change of local stresses. With this model, we numerically investigated the evolution of the cohesive zone ahead of the propagating longitudinal shear (mode II) crack in brittle and quasi-brittle materials. To describe the fracture of brittle and quasi-brittle materials within a unified mathematical formalism, the local fracture time was scaled within two orders of magnitude. In the study, we showed for the first time that the generally accepted form of the dependence of the cohesive zone length on crack propagation velocity <em>V<sub>crack</sub></em> (“Lorentz contraction”) is violated at high <em>V<sub>crack</sub></em> values close to the Rayleigh wave velocity (crack growth in brittle materials) as well as at low <em>V<sub>crack</sub></em> values (quasi-brittle materials), where its transits to exponential decay. We also showed that an increase in the scale of local fracture incubation time, corresponding to the transition from the brittle to the quasi-brittle failure mode, leads to a qualitative change in the mode of the dynamic variations of cohesive zone length from regular (periodic) to irregular (chaotic). It was established that the dynamic variations of cohesive zone length during the course of the crack propagation are determined by the instability of the maximum (peak) shear stress value.
[51] 王伟,薛千里,王超营 ,等.Molecular dynamics study of the atomic mechanism of crack propagation in ice I_(h)[J].Acta Mechanica Sinica,2026,42 (3):643-650,The Chinese Society of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics;Institute of Mechanics, Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：Through molecular dynamics,the characteristics of crack propagation on basal and prismatic planes in single-crystal ice I_(h)were investigated as functions of temperature and salinity at the atomic *** fracture toughness was found to increase with decreasing *** low temperatures,cracks propagated in a brittle manner along cleavage planes due to the sequential breaking of the hydrogen bonds under the most stress directly in front of the sharp crack *** occurred at the crack tip above 125 ***,the brittle-ductile transition(BDT)did not change the brittle fracture characteristics of the *** crack underwent BDTs at both low and high temperatures due to the interactions between the salt and water molecules at the *** transition contributed to a gradual increase in fracture toughness with increasing salinity but did not change the ultimate brittle fracture properties of the ice.
[52] 杨鑫,周航,冉正熙 ,等.双孔爆破作用下裂纹扩展与贯穿数值模拟研究[J].振动与冲击,2025,44 (17):202-214
摘要：为研究爆破作用下岩石动态断裂行为,采用有限元方法模拟了砂岩在单双孔爆破作用下裂纹扩展与贯穿过程。首先利用已有试验数据,计算得到砂岩的多项式状态方程系数,并基于Hoek-Brown准则,获取了JH-2(Johnson-Holmquist)本构模型参数。通过对单孔爆破内外部作用模拟,结果能较好地再现了粉碎区和裂隙区特征,成功验证了多项式状态方程、JH-2本构模型及其材料参数在动态裂纹模拟的可靠性。双孔爆破模拟结果表明:不同孔距和延期时间下,大多数模型孔间裂纹贯穿;同时发现,延期时间对裂纹扩展与贯穿有一定影响,主要表现在先起爆炮孔压缩应力波对后起爆炮孔的裂纹有一定抑制作用,阻碍孔间裂纹相互贯穿。裂纹贯穿主要存在三种形式,即直接贯穿、间接贯穿和混合贯穿,其中在间接贯穿过程中环向裂纹的作用是桥接上下交错的径向裂纹。最后,进一步分析和探讨了裂纹交错和贯穿机理,认为这两种现象的发生主要取决于两裂尖应力场分布和相互影响。
[53] Bingzhen Yu,Guoliang Dai,Shengtao Zhou ,等.Dynamic fracture characteristics of deep hard rocks under confining pressure and temperature: a review of effects, evolution, and future directions[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2026,144 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Understanding the dynamic fracture characteristics of hard rocks in deep in situ conditions is crucial for mining and rock engineering. This review summarizes recent advances in the dynamic fracture characteristics of deep hard rocks under confining pressure and high temperature. Firstly, the testing specimens and experimental apparatuses are reviewed. Then, the microstructural evolution under confining pressure and temperature is systematically analyzed. The review indicates that increasing confining pressure significantly enhances the dynamic fracture toughness (DFT) and fracture energy of hard rocks, gradually shifting the fracture mode from tension-dominated to shear-dominated. The dynamic fracture characteristics of hard rocks are nonlinearly affected by temperature. Within the temperature range of 25–300 °C, DFT may increase slightly. When the temperature exceeds 600 °C, DFT decreases sharply due to the quartz α-β phase transition or calcite thermal decomposition. Increasing the loading rate enhances DFT and fracture energy; however, the rate dependence weakens when thermal damage becomes dominant. Confining pressure increases the threshold temperature of the α–β phase transition (by approximately 60–70 °C per 100 MPa), thereby modulating the temperature dependence of DFT. The coupling between confining pressure and temperature involves a competitive relationship between crack propagation suppression by confining pressure and degradation induced by thermal damage. Under severe thermal damage, increasing confining pressure may intensify crack propagation and promote failure, particularly at higher impact velocities. This review provides an important reference for current studies on the dynamic fracture characteristics of deep hard rocks under confining pressure, temperature, and their coupled effects.
[54] Jun Xu,Shihe Sun,Chenhui Jin ,等.Study on fracture behavior of sandstone with an elliptical defect under combined dynamic and static cyclic loading[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2026,144 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To address the issue of rock mass failure induced by defects under combined dynamic and static loading conditions in engineering rock masses, this study employs an innovative multi-level amplitude-increasing cyclic loading test methodology using red sandstone specimens to systematically evaluate the effects of defect geometry-including inclination angle and size dimensions-on fracture characteristics, damage evolution patterns, strain energy distribution, and acoustic emission (AE) activities throughout the complete failure process. Crack propagation analysis demonstrates that wing cracks, anti-wing cracks, and secondary cracks consistently initiate from defect tips, with propagation patterns showing excellent correlation with strain field distributions. While defect size variations show minimal influence on crack patterns, they induce a distinctive W-shaped variation in peak strength. Larger inclination angles (particularly 75° and 90°) significantly suppress crack development yet enhance material strength, providing crucial insights for practical applications in borehole design and stability control. Energy analysis reveals sophisticated relationships between defect geometry and energy evolution. The energy density distribution shows perfect alignment with crack behavior, validating established theoretical models. Total strain energy exhibits characteristic W-shaped and V-shaped variations corresponding to defect size and angle changes, respectively. Energy and damage area ratio accumulates gradually until 80% of fatigue life, then accelerates before failure. Acoustic emission monitoring indicates substantially higher activity under dynamic loading conditions, with <em>b</em>-value evolution serving as an effective failure predictor through its three-phase pattern of initial increase, fluctuation, and decrease. The investigation outcomes significantly advance understanding of rock fracture mechanics under complex loading scenarios and offer innovative approaches f
[55] 姬伟江,张保良,聂凤义 ,等.单轴压缩条件下煤-砂岩组合体裂纹扩展裂隙倾角效应研究[J].能源与环保,2026,48 (1):258-264
摘要：复杂地质条件下煤岩组合体结构的失稳破坏是引发深井煤岩动力灾害的主要原因。为研究煤岩组合体的力学行为及其裂纹扩展的规律,基于离散元理论,采用离散元软件(PFC2D)进行单轴压缩模拟试验。研究结果表明,裂隙角度对弹性模量、峰值强度具有一定影响,煤岩组合体的峰值强度随着角度增加呈现先下降后迅速上升的趋势,弹性模量的变化趋势与峰值强度变化趋势相似;裂隙角度会调控两岩体之间的相对强度关系,75°、90°试件的裂纹扩展、破坏集中在煤体中,其余试件则为整体张拉破坏;在微裂纹中总裂纹及张拉裂纹数量均随着裂隙角度的增大总体呈现倒“U“趋势。研究结果为深部煤炭安全开采及灾害防治提供新思路。
[56] Georgios Kotsinis,Zoi Chatzaki,Ely Vlajos Gόmez ,等.Vibration-Induced variations in Dynamic Mode I interlaminar fracture toughness[J].Composites Part A: Applied Science and Manufacturing,2025,198 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study proposes a methodology to investigate the rate dependency of Mode I fracture toughness in fracture delamination specimens under high-speed loading conditions. Through both analytical modelling and experimental testing, the influence of elastic vibrations on fracture mechanisms during crack initiation and propagation is explored. An updated analytical model for calculating dynamic fracture toughness during crack propagation, considering elastic vibrations and crack velocity, is proposed and validated using a numerical model from the literature. Experiments conducted on composite adhesive joints with a custom high-speed apparatus provide critical data on the fracture behavior of the specimen. Finally, the study examines the relationship between fracture toughness and strain rate under dynamic loading conditions, a correlation commonly incorporated into numerical models.
[57] Cuigang Chen,Zilong Zhou,Xin Cai ,等.Temperature-dependent influence mechanisms of ice-filled fractures on the dynamic fracture behavior of frozen sandstone[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2026,142 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In cold regions, ice formed by the freezing of water in rock fractures alters the fracture properties of rocks, significantly affecting the stability and safety of engineering structures. To investigate the effect of ice-filled fractures on the fracture behavior of rock, dynamic fracture tests were conducted on specimens with and without ice-filled fractures under different freezing temperatures. Crack propagation was captured using digital image correlation (DIC) and high-speed camera. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used to observe the fracture surface morphology, and fragment size was quantified through sieving and image analysis. The effects of ice bridge and frost heave induced by ice-filled fractures on rock fracture behavior were systematically discussed. Results show that for specimens without ice, fracture toughness, fracture energy, and crack propagation speed increase as temperature decreases. The fracture mode changes from joint fracture to quasi-joint fracture and tearing ridge failure, with an increase in fragment size. In contrast, specimens with ice-filled fractures exhibit a nonlinear response to temperature. Fracture toughness and energy peak at −30 °C but drop sharply at −40 °C. Crack propagation speed is lowest at −30 °C but slightly increases at −40 °C due to frost heave-induced microcracks. Between −10 °C and − 30 °C, multi-level joint structures form on the fracture surface, with increasing complexity as temperature decreases, then simplify at −40 °C. Fragment size decreases before −30 °C and increases again at −40 °C. Ice-bridging and frost heave effects jointly govern rock fracture behavior, with ice-bridging enhancing integrity, primarily dependent on tensile strength of ice, and frost heave increasing stress concentration at crack tips. This study reveals a dual control mechanism of ice-filled fractures on rock fracture behavior and provides theoretical support for rock engineering in cold regions.
[58] Bolbanabad, Shadman Mohammadi,Monjezi, Masoud,Sarfarazi, Vahab .Dynamic fracture and fragmentation of edge-notched iron ore specimens under high strain rate loading[J].Bulletin of Engineering Geology and the Environment,2026,85 (5):279-279,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：This study investigates the dynamic mechanical behavior, fracture mechanisms, and fragmentation characteristics of magnetite iron ore specimens containing non-persistent edge notches under high strain-loading rate. Dynamic tests carried out with the Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar (SHPB) to analyze the effects of notch geometry (length and inclination angle) and moisture conditions (dry and water-saturated frozen). The effects were further investigated through high-speed imaging, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and fractal analysis to characterize crack initiation, propagation, and fragmentation patterns. Notch angle and notch length were varied during the test. loading rate was 772 s(-1). Results reveal that ice presence in the notches acts as a temporary stiffener, increasing initial stiffness and delaying crack initiation, thereby enhancing dynamic strength and elastic modulus in saturated frozen specimens. Notch angle significantly affects mechanical response, with minimum strength and stiffness at 30 degrees due to maximum stress concentration, and peak values at 90 degrees where the notch aligns with the loading direction. Increasing notch length reduces strength and stiffness by facilitating crack propagation. Two fracture modes, tensile (smooth surfaces) and shear (rough, pulverized surfaces), were identified via SEM and imaging, supporting mechanical findings. Fragmentation intensity increases with fractal dimension and energy dissipation, both influenced by notch geometry and moisture state. These findings provide valuable guidance that can help to refine blasting design, improve comminution efficiency, and model rock mass behavior in both dry and cold-region mining.
[59] Krishnendu Sivadas,Amol Vuppuluri,Chandu Parimi ,等.A regularized phase-field model for dynamic fracture in bi-material structures: Influence of interface and geometric characteristics[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2026,333 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this work, we employed a phase field fracture model for understanding the crack-interface interactions in the presence of material heterogeneities under dynamic loading. The crack-interface interaction is explored for the system with a sharp interface (zero thickness) as well as a regularized interface (finite thickness) having tan-hyperbolic regularization. The interface is regularized in order to capture the realistic condition across the interface. Within this framework, the length-scale parameters of the bulk material <span class="math"><math><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">ℓ</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">s</mi></mrow></msub></math></span> and the interface <span class="math"><math><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">ℓ</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">i</mi></mrow></msub></math></span> are not treated independently. Instead, they are expressed in terms of a tuning parameter called the diffusivity parameter <span class="math"><math><mi is="true">k</mi></math></span>, as a length-scale diffusivity ratio <span class="math"><math><mrow is="true"><msub is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">ℓ</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">s</mi></mrow></msub><mo is="true">/</mo><mi is="true">k</mi></mrow></math></span>. This enables optimization of the length-scale, balancing accuracy and computational efficiency while maintaining the physical relevance. Moreover, the existing numerical complexity in capturing interface mechanics, the need for conforming interface, and homogenization methods are no longer required, making the implementation straightforward. Crack propagation, branching/penetration, and crack arrest are readily simulated, highlighting the capability of the model to reproduce the complex dynamic fracture mechanisms. The comparison with sharp interface results confirms the accuracy of predictions. The in-depth fracture studies are carried out by considering different fracture toughness ratios between the constitu
[60] Du, Hongbo,Zhang, Yalin,Yan, Zelin ,等.Numerical Insights Into the Dynamic Tensile Fracture Propagation Mechanism of Rocks[J].Fatigue & Fracture of Engineering Materials & Structures,2025,48 (12):5095-5111,WILEY
摘要：The notched semi-circular bend (NSCB) specimen incorporating the split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) is the only suggested dynamic mode I fracture testing method of rocks by the International Society for Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering (ISRM). Constrained by current experimental techniques, the instantaneous fracture propagation details have yet to be fully elucidated. In this work, we re-evaluate the dynamic transient propagation fracture properties of the NSCB specimen by discrete element method (DEM). Numerical results show that the complete crack propagating process can be well described by the logistic model. The moment tensor (MT) analysis results indicate that the tensile fracture mechanism dominates the whole fracture process. Detailed energy analysis shows that previous averaged propagation fracture toughness may be overestimated. The fracture propagation toughness is affected by both loading rate and crack velocity. These new insights provide significant implications for disaster prevention in rock engineering.
[61] Xiang Ou,Xiaoqing Zhang,Xiaohu Yao .A GPU-based adaptive coupling modeling between peridynamics and continuum mechanics for dynamic fracture in particle-reinforced materials[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,330 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Simulating dynamic crack propagation in composite structures remains a significant challenge due to the material’s anisotropy, heterogeneous interfaces, complex failure mechanisms. Peridynamic theory offers a promising framework for modeling such fractures, as it naturally accommodates displacement discontinuities and can capture complex crack propagation. Nevertheless, the computational expense of peridynamic models remains prohibitive for practical applications. To address this limitation, based on our previous work [<a class="anchor anchor-primary" data-sd-ui-side-panel-opener="true" data-xocs-content-id="b0215" data-xocs-content-type="reference" href="#b0215" name="bb0215"><span class="anchor-text-container"><span class="anchor-text">43</span></span></a>], the present study develops a novel adaptive coupling modeling between peridynamics and classical continuum mechanics, specifically designed to simulate dynamic crack propagation and branching phenomena in particle reinforced composite structures. To enhance the computational efficiency of dynamic fracture simulations, a parallel algorithm in the Compute Unified Device Architecture (CUDA) framework is proposed, using the Morphing coupling method (Lubineau et al., J Mech Phys Solids 60(6):1088–1102, 2012). A benchmark dynamic fracture problem containing branching patterns is used to verify the accuracy and efficiency of the adaptive coupling models for composite dynamic fracture and the parallel algorithm. The simulation results demonstrate that the proposed adaptive coupling approach effectively captures the key characteristics of dynamic crack propagation, including crack branching phenomena at the matrix-particle interface. Both interfacial debonding and transparticle cracking behaviors are accurately reproduced, validating the model’s capability in simulating complex fracture patterns in particulate materials. Meanwhile, the proposed parallel algorithm demonstrates both computational efficiency and numerical
[62] Gong, Shuang,Sun, Shiyi,Zhang, Hansong ,等.Dynamic fracture toughness and fractal characteristics of crack in pressurized acidified Qinshui coal under impact loading[J].Physics of Fluids,2025,37 (1),AIP Publishing
摘要：To investigate the effect of acid fracturing fluid on the fracture toughness and fractal properties of crack propagation in Qinshui coal under impact load, the 50 mm diameter split Hopkinson pressure bar device was employed to carry out mode I dynamic fracture toughness tests on Qinshui anthracite samples treated with acid fracturing fluid and water-based fracturing fluid under different impact pressures. Coal samples were subjected to force saturation and acidity treatment using an innovative apparatus. The fracture propagation phase of the specimen was acquired by a high-speed camera sensor. Combined with Image J analysis software and PCAS image recognition system, the macroscopic crack propagation trajectory and probability entropy of micro pores in coal samples were quantitatively analyzed. These findings revealed that dynamic fracture toughness endowed a strong rate-response relationship. When the impact pressure is 0.3, 0.4, and 0.5 MPa, the average fracture toughness of the water-based fracturing fluid group coal specimens was respectively 0.64, 1.20, and 1.31 times better that of the acidic fracturing fluid group. The rate of crack propagation and the dynamic fracture toughness of coal were reduced after acidification of the specimens. The crack growth rate initially surged, then decreased rapidly until it reached a stable state under impact load, while the variation in crack growth length and opening breadth showed a time-dependent increase. Crack propagation resistance and dynamic fracture toughness of coal are reduced by the acidification of the specimens. The fractal dimension of cracks in specimen increased under the impact of pressure growth. The fractal dimensions of crack in coal samples under the action of acidic fracturing fluid at 0.30, 0.40, and 0.50 MPa are 1.066, 1.078, and 1.087 times that of water-based fracturing fluid, as well as 1.119, 1.136, and 1.157 times that of natural state coal samples. With the increase in impact pressure, the entr
[63] Bouaraquia, Oussama,Mabssout, Mokhtar .Influence of kernel functions on dynamic fracture in the bond-based peridynamics[J].机械与工业,2026,27 ,EDP SCIENCES S A
摘要：Peridynamics is a nonlocal extension of classical continuum mechanics and is increasingly used to solve fracture mechanics problems. However, some issues remain, such as its dispersion characteristics and the use of the constant micromodulus. The introduction of the weighted or kernel functions can effectively address these issues. In this work, several micromodulus functions in the bond-based peridynamics approach are used to explore the influence of the kernel functions on wave dispersion, as well as on the evaluation of dynamic stress intensity factors (DSIFs) and crack propagation. First, a wave dispersion analysis for a 1D problem is performed for different kernel functions. Then, Mode-I and Mode-II DSIFs are computed. The DSIFs are calculated from the displacement field in the vicinity of the crack tip using the displacement extrapolation method. Finally, the Kalthoff-Winkler benchmark is simulated to assess the effect of the kernel functions on dynamic crack propagation.
[64] Ping Zhou,Wenbo Duan,Kai Peng ,等.Research on the crack propagation and bifurcation under dynamic indentation with peridynamics[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,315 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The mechanisms of crack initiation, propagation and bifurcation in hard and brittle materials are the foundamental for planning their processing and conducting applied research. There are significant differences between crack propagation under dynamic loading and static crack propagation, and the complex propagation and bifurcation behaviors require further investigation. In this paper, the basic characteristics of crack initiation, crack bifurcation, propagation rate and stress distribution and their interrelationships, are investigated by peridynamic simulations of dynamic indentation in brittle materials with varying indenter and indentation speeds. The results show that as the indentation speed increases, greater tensile stress is generated at the crack initiation location, and the crack morphology shows a tendency to elongate, widen and bifurcate, which facilitates the acceleration of tensile stress release. Larger indenter angles and changing from a uniform motion to a harmonic motion indentation result in increased impact energy, which results in cracks widening and bifurcation at lower indentation velocities. In addition, the crack propagation velocity initially increase as the indentation velocity increases until reaching the limiting velocity, which is about 0.52 times the Rayleigh wave velocity. By calculating the stress intensity factor at the crack tip, it was found that the crack will start to bifurcate after the stress intensity factor exceeds 2.3 times the fracture toughness. Integrating the results of crack propagation analyses in different cases, the fastest way of releasing energy from the crack tip determines the crack propagation rate and morphology. The study provides valuable insights into the understanding of crack initiation and bifurcation during machining of brittle materials.
[65] Yang Du,Yixiao Sun,Xiaojun Liang ,等.Mesoscopic mechanism of dynamic crack propagation and branching of pipe under internal detonation loading[J].International Journal of Solids and Structures,2026,334 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In nuclear, chemical, and transportation industries, dynamic crack propagation and branching of pipelines may be triggered by accidental internal explosions. From the mesoscopic perspective, this is the result of microvoids nucleation and evolution in the region ahead of crack tips. However, macroscopic damage models fail to capture the detailed evolution of microvoids, and the underlying mesoscopic mechanism of dynamic fracture remains unclear. To bridge this knowledge gap, the Gurson-Tvergaard-Needleman (GTN) mesoscopic damage model was incorporated into the Johnson-Cook thermo-viscoplastic constitutive model to reveal the mesoscopic mechanism of dynamic crack propagation and branching. The fluid-structure interaction between internal detonation wave and pipe was achieved using the immersed boundary method (IBM) and softened contact algorithm. Results demonstrated that the developed model effectively described void nucleation, growth and void volume fraction (VVF) evolution. The increase of VVF at the main crack tip was primarily governed by void nucleation (VVFN). Conversely, at the branched crack tip, it was mainly driven by void growth (VVFG). Results further revealed that the simultaneous occurrence of void nucleation and growth at the crack tips led to following straight crack propagation. In contrast, crack branching developed when void growth occurred after the void nucleation had reached 55%-70% of its peak value. In this case, the crack branching angle was consistent with the direction of both the maximum VVFG and strain rate in the region ahead of crack tip. The study provides new insights into the mesoscopic mechanism of dynamic crack propagation of pipe due to internal explosive loading.
[66] Mushfiqullah Sapay,Pascal Forquin .Dynamic crack velocity and fracture toughness in concrete using two full-field measurement techniques: Effect of free-water[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,316 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, two full-field processing methods were applied to analyse ultra-high-speed camera images recorded during rocking spalling tests to assess dynamic crack propagation velocity and fracture toughness of concrete under different moisture conditions. The first method used Crack Opening Displacement (COD) based DIC processing, while the second employed Extended FEM-DIC analysis. Both techniques provided consistent results in terms of crack-tip position and propagation velocity. The rocking spalling approach utilised double-notched specimens loaded using a single-Hopkinson bar device. Digital Image Correlation techniques processed images acquired at 500 kfps. Mean crack velocities ranged from 900–1000 m/s for dry concrete and 1200–1300 m/s for saturated concrete. The critical stress intensity factor was consistently higher in saturated specimens, aligning with their increased strength and strain-rate sensitivity compared to dry specimens.
[67] 王振兴,王洋,樊龙 ,等.岩石破裂裂纹扩展时空演化特征及预警研究[J].矿业研究与开发,2025,45 (10):144-151
摘要：采矿扰动引起的岩爆等动力灾害严重制约深部矿产资源的开发利用,探索岩石内部裂纹的扩展过程对揭示岩石破坏机制和灾害预警具有重要意义。基于此,对花岗岩在单轴加载作用下的声发射时空响应特征进行了监测。采用单链接聚类(SLC)方法,构造了声发射事件的SLC结构,并通过引入声发射事件的空间相关长度,分析了不同时间尺度下声发射事件之间的空间相关程度。结果表明,声发射事件的三维定位及能量属性可表征花岗岩试样中微裂纹的扩展及损伤演化过程。随着应力的增大,SLC结构中链路长度逐渐减小,裂纹集群内部的相关性增强。空间相关长度经历了“高位波动—平稳波动—突增”的三阶段。在接近花岗岩破裂时,由于应力在试样中的重新分布和传递导致空间相关长度突增,可作为花岗岩失稳预警点。SLC方法为研究岩石裂纹扩展演化过程提供了一种有效方法,可为岩爆等动力灾害预警及防治提供重要的参考。
[68] Wang Zhang,Zhimin Wu,Rena C. Yu ,等.Modelling unstable crack propagation in concrete by finite element method with continuous nodal stress[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,135 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Cracks in concrete will propagate unstably due to excessive shear stress, interactions at the rock-concrete interface, or sudden energy release, significantly compromising structural bearing capacity. To investigate this phenomenon, a nonlinear numerical method for modelling mixed-mode I-II crack propagation has been developed. This approach integrates dynamic equilibrium with a fictitious crack model and an initiation fracture toughness criterion. Key innovations include the incorporation of a finite element method with continuous nodal stress to enhance calculation accuracy, the utilization of kinetic energy to compensate for abrupt losses of strain energy during crack propagation, and the consideration of the deformation of the distributive beam and its interactions with specimens and supports. It was validated by modelling classic benchmarks for the dynamic initiation and propagation of brittle materials under mode I and mixed-mode I-II loading, and applied to analyse unstable crack propagation in concrete for four-point shear (FPS) beam specimens under various ratios of mode I and II stress intensity factors (<em>K</em><sub>I</sub>/<em>K</em><sub>II</sub> = 0 to 5.32) and loading rates (2 × 10<sup>-7</sup> m/s to 2 × 10<sup>-3</sup> m/s). Results indicated that the method effectively captures unstable crack propagation, with load-crack mouth shear displacement (CMSD) curves and crack propagation trajectories closely matching the experimental data. Furthermore, it was observed that when the elastic strain energy within the concrete beam exceeds the residual energy stored in the extended cracks, the crack transitions from stability to instability; conversely, if the elastic strain energy is less than or approximately equal to the residual energy, the crack decelerates and returns to stability. Additionally, parametric analyses reveal that lower distributive beam stiffness, shorter preset crack lengths, reduced concrete fracture energy, and a less robust cohesive
[69] Ri-hong Cao,Hailong Yu,Chaoyi Yang ,等.Fracture mechanical behaviour and energy variation of SCC samples with different crack spacings under dynamic loading[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,139 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this experimental investigation, SHPB impact tests were conducted on short core-in-compression (SCC) samples with varying crack spacings to investigate the relationships between peak fracture load and rock mode II fracture toughness at different crack spacings, as well as the evolution of failure morphology. Additionally, discrete element simulations using PFC3D were performed to investigate the fracture progression, crack development, and energy variations from a microscale perspective. Experimental observations demonstrate enhanced mode II dynamic fracture toughness corresponding to larger crack spacing configurations, and intercrack distance variations exert a dominant control on the fracture propagation patterns observed in the tested samples. Furthermore, with increasing fracture spacing, quantitative analysis reveals a gradual reduction in shear crack prevalence within samples, paralleled by a commensurate increase in tensile crack formation rates. The energy consumed by a sample during crack propagation progressively increases as the crack spacing increases, a trend that is influenced by both the crack length and the number of microcracks. The failure modes of the samples with C/H values of 0.4 and 0.5 change, suggesting the existence of a critical C/H value between 0.3 and 0.4, which causes the SCC samples to transition from mode II fracture behaviour.
[70] Fengchen Li,Hongze Li,J.L. Feng ,等.3D discrete element modeling of mixed-mode dynamic fracture in high-strength concrete[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2026,331 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study investigates the mixed-mode dynamic fracture behavior of high-strength concrete under mixed-mode loading conditions using a 3D discrete element model incorporating rate-dependent material properties. Mixed-mode I-II and I-III loading scenarios are simulated using three-point bending beams with prefabricated cracks: bias straight cracks for mode I-II and rotating cracks for mode I-III. A realistic 3D discrete element model is developed by incorporating crushable aggregates with real shapes, generated through laser scanning and particle filling techniques. CPU–GPU acceleration techniques are employed to enable efficient numerical simulations. The validity of the present model is verified by comparing the experimental data in the literature. The model effectively captures the influence of the strain rate and aggregate strength on the mixed-mode fracture process, including crack initiation, propagation, and the overall force–displacement response. The results show that both an increase in the strain rate and enhanced aggregate strength contribute to delayed fracture and improved resistance to mixed-mode cracking in high-strength concrete. Furthermore, the distinct fracture characteristics are observed between mixed-mode I-II and I-III loading conditions. Under the same concrete mixture ratio, the shape of crack propagation path for mode I-II fracture is smoother, the brittleness is more obvious, and the fracture load is larger than that of mode I-III fracture.
[71] Zhou, J.,Moody, K.,Wu, S. ,等.Crack-Tip Opening, Blunting and Propagation in Elastomers: Experiments and Simulations[J].Experimental Mechanics,2026,SPRINGER
摘要：Background Soft elastomers are widely used in emerging applications such as stretchable electronics and soft robotics, where cracks and flaws can strongly influence mechanical reliability. Methods Here we investigate the fracture mechanics of polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) by systematically examining the effects of crack depth and crack length on the elastic fields ahead of the crack tip. A combination of theoretical analysis, finite element simulations, and experiments using digital image correlation (DIC) was employed to characterize crack-tip deformation, opening, and evolution. Results The results show that crack geometry plays a critical role in governing crack-tip strain behavior. Shorter or shallower cracks restrict crack opening and blunting, resulting in nearly linear strain fields ahead of the crack tip. In contrast, longer or deeper cracks promote pronounced crack opening and blunting, leading to higher strain magnitudes and asymptotic strain behavior. Three distinct stages during fracture-crack opening, blunting, and propagation-were identified. DIC measurements further revealed that, once propagation begins, the crack advances in a self-similar manner with nearly constant strain and curvature. Conclusions These findings provide new insights into the interplay between crack geometry, nonlinear elastic fields, and fracture evolution in soft elastomers.
[72] Hossein Saberi,Alexander Düster .Adaptive finite element phase-field simulation of dynamic brittle fracture[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2026,450 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In finite element analysis, mesh refinement is typically employed to improve accuracy by increasing spatial resolution in regions with steep solution gradients. This study presents an adaptive mesh refinement technique for dynamic fracture simulation based on the phase-field method. A multi-level node distance function is introduced using the phase-field variable to control mesh density. As damage evolves, the nodal spacing is adaptively refined according to the prescribed maximum spacing; whenever the computed distance exceeds this threshold, a new field node is introduced at the element center, ensuring the mesh evolves consistently with crack propagation. In addition, material damping effects are incorporated into the phase-field formulation to capture realistic dynamic fracture responses. Time integration is investigated using the Newmark scheme, the generalized-<em>α</em> method, and the backward implicit approach. The results indicate that, while the first two schemes are commonly applied, the backward implicit method provides superior stability in dynamic simulations. Furthermore, a staggered solution strategy is proposed in which both displacement and phase-field variables are iteratively and consistently updated within each solution step. The effectiveness of the proposed methodology is demonstrated through three numerical examples. The responses of elastic energy, kinetic energy, and energy dissipated by crack propagation are evaluated, together with the effects of material damping. The results confirm that the presented approach significantly improves computational efficiency while preserving accuracy and exhibits robust convergence behavior in highly dynamic fracture simulations.
[73] Lu, Jianyou,Min, Xinhai,Guo, Tengfei ,等.Interfacial Dynamic Fracture Behavior and Crack Evolution in Phosphogypsum-Based Concrete-Rock Composites[J].Fatigue & Fracture of Engineering Materials & Structures,2026,WILEY
摘要：To address phosphogypsum stockpiling pollution, this study investigates the dynamic fracture behavior of phosphogypsum-based concrete-rock (PC-R) composites using PFC2D simulations. Simulated dynamic three-point bending tests on notched semi-circular bend (NSCB) specimens reveal that a 25% phosphogypsum aggregate (PA) content marginally reduces interfacial fracture toughness (K IC) by 5.89%-8.33% due to mechanical interlocking and internal curing effects. However, as PA increases, fractures divert into the concrete matrix, with 100% PA causing a 32.40%-39.85% K IC drop. Consequently, crack propagation shifts from a singular interfacial path to a dual interface-matrix mechanism. The dynamic K IC exhibits strong loading-rate sensitivity, accurately captured by a mixed exponential model. Additionally, the fracture process zone (FPZ) length increases nonlinearly;exceeding a 75% PA threshold forms extensive internal pore networks, triggering a macroscopic brittle-to-ductile transition. These findings provide theoretical foundations for composite structural design and promote sustainable phosphogypsum utilization.
[74] Dayou Ma .A cohesive model for stick–slip behavior in mode-I fracture during double cantilever beam tests: A dynamic process with static loading[J].International Journal of Solids and Structures,2025,321 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：There is a chance that laminate composite materials could exhibit discontinuous fracture behaviors with varied energy release rate as crack propagates in mode-I, known as stick–slip fracture. The current work focuses on modeling such mechanical behaviors by proposing a cohesive model with adapted traction-separation mechanical behavior for crack propagation. The fracture surface from experiments were divided into energy accumulation zone and rapid cracking zone to capture the stick–slip fracture. The mathematical relationships between crack length and crack opening displacement at loading tips during double cantilever beam tests were built based on fracture mechanism to determine critical parameters for proposed cohesive model. Both analytical and finite element models with user subroutine were developed for the validation of the proposed cohesive models with two different experimental cases. As a result, the proposed cohesive model can accurately predict the stick–slip fracture, indicating the mode-I fracture behavior with stick–slip can be a quasi-static process but with dynamic propagation.
[75] Diksha,Chaudhary, Soniya,Othmani, Cherif ,等.Dynamic Fracture Analysis of Moving Mode I Collinear Cracks in Monoclinic Crystalline Strip: An Analytical Approach Using Hilbert Transform[J].Fatigue & Fracture of Engineering Materials & Structures,2026,49 (1):284-304,WILEY
摘要：The objective of this study is to analyze the dynamic propagation of Mode I collinear cracks in a prestressed monoclinic crystalline strip subjected to punch loading. The study focuses on the combined effect of horizontal and vertical prestress on fracture parameters in anisotropic materials. Within the framework of linear elastic fracture mechanics, the moving boundary value problem is formulated using the Galilean transformation and reduced to coupled Cauchy-type singular integral equations, solved analytically through the Hilbert transform. Explicit expressions for crack opening displacement and stress intensity factors are derived. Results show that prestress strongly modifies fracture behavior, with anisotropy, crack velocity, and loading type (localized versus uniform) significantly influencing the response. Localized loading produces stronger effects in anisotropic crystals compared to isotropic ones. The novelty of this work lies in its analytical treatment of dynamic fracture in prestressed anisotropic crystals, offering insights for the design and reliability of micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS), acoustic devices, and biosensors.
[76] Zhang, Jian-Guo,Yang, Wen,Wang, Hai-Bo ,等.Experimental Study on Fracture Toughness and Crack Propagation Characteristics of Slate under Dynamic Loading[J].BLASTING,2025,42 (1):37-43and55,BLASTING Magazine Editorial Office, Wuhan University of Technology
摘要：To investigate the fracture toughness of natural slate under dynamic loading, dynamic impact tests were conducted on notched semi-circular bending slate specimens by a 50 mm diameter split Hopkinson pressure bar testing system and the crack growth process was recorded by the high-speed cameras. Furthermore, the dynamic fracture toughness and crack propagation rate of slate under different impact pressure and prefabricated crack lengths were studied. The results show that the dynamic fracture toughness of the specimen is positively correlated with the impact pressure and loading rate, and the dynamic fracture toughness first increases and then decreases with the rise of the prefabricated crack length. According to the fitting results, the dynamic fracture toughness of the specimen reaches the maximum value when the prefab crack length is 7. 45 mm. The maximum values of dynamic fracture toughness at 0. 2, 0. 3 and 0. 4 MPa were 2. 99, 3. 57 and 4. 14 GPa·m<sup>1</sup> / <sup>2</sup>, respectively. The failure process of the specimen can be divided into five stages: dynamic damage, crack propagation, crack formation, crack propagation, and specimen fracture. The propagation speed of the main crack of the specimen greatly fluctuates, while the prefabricated crack length has little effect on the propagation velocity of the specimen. The study revealed the differences in dynamic fracture behavior of slate specimens under different working conditions. © 2025 BLASTING Magazine Editorial Office, Wuhan University of Technology. All rights reserved.
[77] 刘兴伟,杨勇林,王宗奇 .一维六方压电准晶中菱形孔口双裂纹传播问题[J].数学的实践与认识,2025,55 (2):149-157
摘要：针对压电效应下一维六方准晶中含菱形孔口双裂纹的传播问题.采用动力学理论,作Galileo变换,通过引入位移势函数和Schwarz-Christoffel映射技术将无限大平面内菱形孔口不对称裂纹映射到数学平面内,进而应用Cauchy公式,给出当裂纹以v匀速传播时菱形孔口不对称裂纹的动态应力强度因子和电位移强度因子的解析表达式.这些结果为工程断裂和动态实践提供了良好的理论依据.
[78] Hirshikesh,Pramod, A. L. N.,Nathan, V. ,等.QUASI-STATIC AND DYNAMIC CRACK PROPAGATION BASED ON ADAPTIVE PHASE FIELD METHOD USING NOVEL PHYSICS-BASED REFINEMENT CRITERIA[J].International Journal for Multiscale Computational Engineering,2026,24 (1):25-45,BEGELL HOUSE INC
摘要：The present work extends recently proposed physics-based refinement criteria to dynamic crack propagation problems and discusses the implementation of the same in an open-source finite element package, FEniCS in both two and three dimensions. The efficacy and the robustness (in terms of the degrees offreedom) of the implementation is demonstrated against uniform refinement and other adaptive methods proposed in the literature. In addition to the standard benchmark problems, we also discuss the effect of Poisson's ratio and Young's modulus mismatch on the crack path in a glass composite. From this study, it can been seen that the proposed approach requires a fewer number of elements when compared to uniform refinement to yield comparable results. The current implementation provides a starting point to an efficient framework to fracture problems for practical engineering with less experience with coding skills.
[79] Shang, Guangyuan,Tan, Mengting,Liu, Muhao ,等.Numerical Simulation of Crack Propagation in YAG Transparent Ceramic Under Fragment Impact Based on Peridynamics Method[J].北京理工大学学报,2026,46 (4):436-450,Beijing Institute of Technology
摘要：To overcome the limitations of classical continuum mechanics in modeling brittle fracture under impact loading, a bond-based peridynamic framework was adopted to accurately predict crack propagation in transparent ceramics. A numerical model simulating tungsten carbide fragments' impacts on YAG transparent ceramic was developed and validated through edge-on impact experiments. The model elucidated the dynamic crack-evolution mechanisms during penetration, and quantitatively assessed the roles of impact velocity, energy-release rate, and fragment shape in governing crack propagation. Results reveal a three-stage failure sequence: (i) comminuted-zone expansion, (ii) crack propagation, and (iii) fragment ejection. As impact velocity rose, the damage rate increased and then plateaued;the propagation angle of primary cracks remained essentially constant at higher velocities. Secondary-crack clusters migrated toward the impact axis with increasing velocity and vanished at sufficiently high speeds. Raising the ceramic's energy-release rate markedly suppressed comminuted-zone formation yet exerted a negligible influence on the final fracture pattern. Compared with conical projectile, spherical and cylindrical projectiles produced distinctly different crack networks while inflicting less overall damage. Once the ceramic layer exceeded a critical thickness, the PVB interlayer in YAG/PVB/glass composite targets effectively arrested crack propagation. The findings provide a robust tool for quantitatively analyzing crack propagation, accurately predicting impact damage, laying the groundwork for lightweight, high-strength, and optically integrated transparent composite structures. © 2026, Beijing Institute of Technology. All rights reserved.
[80] Wei Sun,Yiwei Chen,Haibo Wang ,等.Adaptive PD–FEM coupling for dynamic fracture of concrete gravity dams[J].International Journal of Mechanical Sciences,2026,317 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study presents a novel superposition-based adaptive PD–FEM dynamic coupling framework for seismic cracking analysis of concrete gravity dams. The method activates Peridynamic (PD) particles only when needed, based on stress-based crack initiation or proximity-to-crack-tip criteria, enabling automatic evolution of the nonlocal region along the crack path while avoiding unnecessary expansion. Unlike existing PD–FEM approaches, this strategy eliminates the need for grid matching, element topology modifications, and blending-function tuning, thereby greatly simplifying the implementation. An explicit dynamic coupling formulation with contact treatment is developed to ensure stable simulation of alternating crack opening and closure under seismic loading. The framework is first validated through benchmark tests involving dynamic branching, mode-I, and mixed-mode fracture. Application to the Koyna dam further demonstrates its capability for field-scale dynamic fracture analysis. The model accurately captures crack initiation, propagation, and alternating opening–closing behavior on both dam faces, and highlights the essential role of dynamic contact constraints in preventing unrealistic interpenetration and ensuring reliable seismic response predictions. The adaptive algorithm achieves substantial computational savings, reducing the overall computation time by approximately 36% compared with fixed coupling, making the approach suitable for large-scale simulations. Overall, the proposed framework provides an accurate, efficient, and scalable tool for seismic cracking assessment in concrete gravity dams and other field-scale concrete structures.
[81] Li, Meng,Zhao, Haotong,Gao, Shuai ,等.Study on the Guiding Law of Holes on the Crack Propagation Behavior under Impact Load[J].Mechanics of Solids,2025,60 (4):2980-2999,PLEIADES PUBLISHING LTD
摘要：There are a large number of primary and regenerated defects in the rock mass of deep underground engineering, such as primary joints, regenerated cracks and geological holes. When the cracks are subjected to external loads, especially dynamic loads, the dynamic fracture phenomenon will occur. The uncontrolled propagation of cracks will further aggravate the fragmentation of roadway surrounding rock and reduce its stability. To this end, this article simplifies geological fractures into a prefabricated crack and anchor bolt drilling into a single circular hole, thus constructing three types of single crack single hole board experimental configurations (SCSH) with horizontal, vertical, and single hole size variations. The Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar test system (SHPB) is used to explore the influence of single hole on the dynamic fracture behavior of cracks under dynamic load. The effect of physical experiment is verified by the explicit dynamic software AUTODYN, and its influence mechanism is further explored. The results show: (1) as the distance between the circular hole and the tip of the pre-crack increases along the crack direction and propagates to the vicinity of the circular hole, the propagation path tends to the hole;(2) as the increase of vertical distance between hole and pre-crack, the guiding stress field at the tip of the propagating crack and the guiding effect of the hole on the crack are both gradually decrease;(3) with the diameter increase of the hole, which presents a significant guiding phenomenon for the crack dynamic propagation, however, when the hole diameter is less than a certain value, it will have no guiding effect on crack propagation. The research results of this paper can provide strong theoretical support for the corresponding prevention and control measures to ensure the stability of roadway surrounding rock in underground impact pressure mines.
[82] Xiao-Ping Zhou,Er-Bao Du .A two-dimensional adaptive non-uniform discretization bond-based peridynamics for static and dynamic fracture in brittle materials[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,314 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this paper, a two-dimensional adaptive non-uniform discretization bond-based peridynamics is proposed, aimed at investigating the fracture behavior of brittle materials under static and dynamic conditions. The proposed method is grounded in Delaunay triangular discretization and utilizes the self-similarity principle to refine the damage location. The new contribution of this work is that the non-uniform discretization of computational domain can be achieved without knowing the crack propagation path in advance, and the adaptive refinement of the damage position through the proposed method can be better realized. Four numerical cases of static or dynamic fracture under two-dimensional conditions are investigated, and the numerical results obtained by the proposed method are in good agreement with those obtained by non-uniform discrete peridynamic methods with knowing crack propagation path in advance and other numerical methods, such as DYNA3D. The results show that the proposed method can well realize the tracking of crack propagation paths, and can handle problems such as dynamic fracture, complex structural fracture, multi-crack interaction, and so on.
[83] Lv, Nao,Wang, Hailoo,Wang, Junguo ,等.Dynamic Mechanical Properties and Crack Propagation Characteristics of Carbon Fiber Bar Reinforced Concrete after Exposure to Elevated Temperatures[J].Journal of Testing and Evaluation (JOTE),2026,AMER SOC TESTING MATERIALS
摘要：The proposed research is based on experimental observations of impact air pressure and temperature influence on the mechanical properties and crack propagation of carbon fiber bar reinforced concrete and plain concrete. Dynamic compression experiment was conducted on both types of concrete using different impact air pressures (0.2, 0.3, and 0.4 MPa) after subjecting them to high-temperatures with split Hopkinson pressure bar system, and combining the use of high-speed camera system to capture crack propagation process. The influence of carbon fiber bar, impact pressure and temperature in peak stress, dynamic increase factor (DIF), toughness, and fracture morphology were analyzed. The research shows that both types of concrete exhibited an intense strain rate effect on strength, with the sensitivity of this effect decreasing as temperature increased. A positive correlation was observed between the temperature growth factor and impact air pressure, whereas a negative correlation existed between strain rate growth factor and temperature. Moreover, the temperature growth factor was consistently lower than the strain rate growth factor. The carbon fiber bar not only merely improved toughness and compressive strength of the concrete material but also hindered crack propagation, thereby reducing the degree of damage and fracture.
[84] Li, Qiang,Li, Yunbo,Song, Dangyu ,等.THMD Coupling Modelling and Crack Propagation Analysis of Coal Rock Under In Situ Liquid Nitrogen Fracturing[J].Fractal and Fractional,2026,10 (4),MDPI
摘要：Liquid nitrogen (LN2) fracturing is a highly promising stimulation technology for unconventional reservoirs. Understanding its in situ fracture network formation mechanism is essential for engineering practice. This study investigates coal rock fracturing driven by the synergistic effect of thermal stress and fluid pressure during LN2 injection. A coupled thermal-hydraulic-mechanical-damage (THMD) numerical model is developed, incorporating in situ stress conditions and LN2 phase change behavior. Through true triaxial LN2 fracturing simulations validated against physical experiments, the multi-field dynamic coupling behavior is systematically analyzed, revealing the synergistic mechanism of fracture propagation and permeability enhancement under cryogenic conditions. The results show the following: (1) The proposed model effectively reproduces the true triaxial LN2 fracturing process, with simulation results in good agreement with physical experiments. (2) LN2 fracturing exhibits distinct stage-wise characteristics: cryogenic temperatures induce thermal stress that triggers micro-crack initiation;the self-enhancing effects of damage and permeability significantly promote fracture propagation;fluid pressure then becomes the dominant driving force. (3) Coal rock damage follows a four-stage evolution-wellbore crack initiation, stable propagation, unstable propagation, and through-going failure-ultimately forming a complex spatial fracture network. (4) The horizontal stress ratio is a key factor controlling fracture morphology: a single dominant fracture forms under a high stress difference, whereas a multi-directional complex network develops under equal confining pressure. Fractal analysis reveals significant anisotropy and a non-monotonic stress response in the fracture complexity, reflecting structural evolution from multi-directional propagation to main channel connection. This study provides theoretical support for understanding LN2 fracturing mechanisms and optim
[85] 折惠东,李又云 .铁路隧道铺底混凝土顶面纵向裂纹扩展研究[J].河南城建学院学报,2025,34 (2):27-33
摘要：为了探讨铁路隧道铺底混凝土顶面纵向裂纹的扩展规律,采用断裂力学理论和有限元软件ABAQUS对隧道铺底结构中心、轨道与枕木端等3个位置的纵向裂纹扩展进行了模拟计算。在围岩压力与列车动载的耦合作用下,对铺底结构纵向裂纹的应力强度因子与扩展路径进行了分析。结果表明:列车动载对纵向裂纹扩展具有显著促进作用,对K_(Ⅱ)影响更为明显。当中心处、轨道处与枕木端处的裂纹深度分别为180、140、100 mm时,3个位置裂纹尖端K_(Ⅰ)达到最大值。随着裂纹扩展深度的增加,对裂纹尖端K_(Ⅱ)的影响程度逐渐增大,尤其是对枕木端K_(Ⅱ)影响更为明显。在裂纹扩展过程中,初期阶段由K_(Ⅰ)主导,后期阶段由K_(Ⅱ)主导,3个位置裂纹扩展的最大深度均为0.8 m。这可为隧道结构设计及裂纹整治提供一定的理论参考依据。
[86] Pedro A. Ferreirós,Ulla Ehrnstén,Yanling Ge ,等.Unexpected low temperature crack propagation in nuclear post-shutdown water chemistry of Alloy 52 with potential effects of hydrogen[J].Corrosion Science,2026,261 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Constant-displacement bolt-loaded compact tension specimens of Nickel-based Alloy 52 were exposed to boiling water reactor environment for 12 years, followed by an additional 3 years in post-shutdown cold water conditions in a Swedish nuclear power plant test loop, under a stress intensity factor of 20 MPa√m. After outer surface decontamination and specimen opening, unexpected crack extensions of 3–4.5 mm were observed. The fracture surface and the cross-sectional deformation microstructure were examined by electron microscopies techniques down to the nanoscale. The oxide layer in the region exhibiting unexpected crack growth was notably thin, suggesting that it formed after exposure to elevated operating temperatures. The dominant fracture mode is transgranular, propagating along close-packed {111} planes. The grains contained heterogeneous microstructures with regions enriched in nanometer-sized Ti(N,C) and the zigzag crack paths did not traverse these regions strengthened areas. Extensive shear bands were present near the crack tips, indicating pronounced localized plasticity. Hydrogen reduces stacking fault energy, results in localized plasticity and enhances shear bands formation. Low temperature crack propagation with evident effects of hydrogen was considered as the potential cause of crack propagation in Alloy 52 in the absence of external dynamic loading under post-shutdown cold water chemistry.
[87] Fournier, Vincent,Girardot, Jeremie,Kopp, Jean-Benoit .Revisiting Dynamic Fracture in PMMA: The Interplay Between Local and Global Methods[J].International Journal of Fracture,2025,249 (3):1-33,SPRINGER
摘要：Polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) is a benchmark brittle material for dynamic crack propagation studies. Despite extensive research, significant inconsistencies persist in reported fracture parameter values, complicating the establishment of a consensus on their sensitivity to the cracking regime. This study aims to rigorously determine these properties while identifying the origins of these discrepancies. To minimize microbranching effects that can strongly influence fracture surface roughness, crack propagation was restricted to subcritical velocities using a strip-band-specimen (SBS) geometry and a dedicated experimental setup. This approach ensured a quasi-steady propagation regime with minimal inertial effects. Dynamic toughness was evaluated using resistance curves constructed from Williams series expansion and displacement fields obtained via digital image correlation (DIC). Fracture energy was assessed through two complementary methods: a global energy balance and an indirect analytical approach based on Irwin's generalized relation. Two distinct propagation regimes were identified: a stable regime (90 - 180 m.s-1\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} \usepackage{amsmath} \usepackage{wasysym} \usepackage{amsfonts} \usepackage{amssymb} \usepackage{amsbsy} \usepackage{mathrsfs} \usepackage{upgreek} \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} \begin{document}$$\hbox {m}.\hbox {s}<^>{-1}$$\end{document}) with smooth fracture surfaces and an unstable regime (180 - 320 m.s-1\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} \usepackage{amsmath} \usepackage{wasysym} \usepackage{amsfonts} \usepackage{amssymb} \usepackage{amsbsy} \usepackage{mathrsfs} \usepackage{upgreek} \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} \begin{document}$$\hbox {m}.\hbox {s}<^>{-1}$$\end{document}) characterized by the emergence of conical microstructures, followed by a transition to fully disrupted propagation beyond 320 m.s-1\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} \usepackage{amsmath} \usepackage{wasysym} \usepackage{amsfonts} \usepackage{amssymb} \
[88] Yuxuan Qi,Liang Mao,Chunlan Jiang ,等.Dynamic fracture behavior and coupled impact effect of as-cast W-Zr-Ti energetic structural material[J].Defence Technology（防务技术）,2026,55 (1):422-435,KeAi Communications Co.
摘要：This paper prepared a novel as-cast W-Zr-Ti metallic ESM using high-frequency vacuum induction melting *** above ESM performs a typical elastic-brittle material feature and strain rate strengthening *** specimens exhibit violent chemical reaction during the fracture process under the impact loading,and the size distribution of their residual debris follows Rosin-Rammler *** dynamic fracture toughness is obtained by the fitting of debris length scale,approximately 1.87 MPa·m~(1/2).Microstructure observation on residual debris indicates that the failure process is determined by primary crack propagation under quasi-static compression,while it is affected by multiple cracks propagation in both particle and matrix in the case of dynamic *** test demonstrates that the novel energetic fragment performs brilliant penetration and combustion effect behind the front target,leading to the effective ignition of fuel *** the brittleness of as-cast W-ZrTi ESM,further study conducted bond-based peridynamic(BB-PD)C++computational code to simulate its fracture behavior during *** BB-PD method successfully captured the fracture process and debris cloud formation of the energetic *** paper explores a novel as-cast metallic ESM,and provides an available numerical avenue to the simulation of brittle energetic fragment.
[89] Mao Zhou,Wenyu Zhang,Fengfei He ,等.Numerical study on dynamic fracture of rock-concrete bi-material Brazilian disks with a central interface crack[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,315 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The initiation and propagation behavior of interface cracks in rock-concrete bi-material structures under dynamic load is of great significance in evaluating the safety and stability of such structures. In this paper, the sandstone-concrete bi-material Brazilian disk is taken as the research object, and a split-Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) dynamic loading system coupled with the finite difference method and discrete element method (FDM-DEM) is constructed to perform a numerical simulation study on the dynamic fracture behavior of rock-concrete Brazilian disk specimens containing a central interface crack. Firstly, the numerical simulation of dynamic fracture of sandstone-concrete specimens is carried out and compared with the experimental results to verify the accuracy of the numerical model, and the evolution laws of the microscopic features of the specimen under different loading angles are discussed. Then the effects of the impact velocity, the interface crack length, and the propagation sequence of the stress wave along the material on the dynamic fracture behavior are investigated. The results demonstrate that the crack patterns exhibit three principal evolutionary characteristics with increasing loading angle: interface propagation crack, composite fracture, and tensile fracture. The number of acoustic emission events and microcracks increased with the increase in loading, and the acoustic emission events increased sharply when reaching the peak load. The peak load, the number of microcracks and the number of secondary cracks increase with the increase of impact velocity. The greater the impact velocity, the more serious the fracture degree of the specimen and the greater the dynamic strength. However, the peak load, the number of microcracks and the number of secondary cracks decrease with the increase of the length of interface cracks, and the strength of specimens demonstrated a negative correlation with the length of interface cracks. Furthermore, the pro
[90] Zhen Liu,Renshu Yang,Jinjing Zuo ,等.Mechanism of explosive crack propagation under the coupling of high crustal stress field and explosion stress field[J].International Journal of Impact Engineering,2026,208 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To clarify the crack propagation mechanism under the coupling of high ground stress field and explosion stress field in rock engineering blasting, this study quantitatively explores the influence of this coupling effect on rock crack propagation through theoretical analysis, laboratory experiments and numerical simulation. By analyzing the crack propagation process and fracture morphology in different confining pressure blasting model experiments, and synchronously simulating the dynamic process of explosion-induced cracks and comparing with experiments, the results show that the coupling of confining pressure and explosion stress field changes the elastic-plastic zone and stress distribution at the crack tip of rocks, as well as the crack propagation path and speed. Under unidirectional confining pressure, the same-direction confining pressure causes tensile stress concentration in the loading direction of the specimen, and the crack propagation length increases by up to 76.5 % compared to no confining pressure. In the vertical direction, compressive stress concentration occurs, and the crack propagation length decreases by up to 39.5 %. Under bidirectional equal confining pressure, compressive stress significantly inhibits crack propagation, and the crack lengths in the <em>x</em> and <em>y</em> directions decrease by 76.3 % and 52.9 % respectively compared to no confining pressure. Moreover, the crack propagation direction is more inclined to be consistent with the confining pressure stress field direction. The explosion stress wave incident in the positive direction induces type I cracks, and the oblique incidence forms type <em>I</em> + II composite cracks. Compared with no confining pressure, in the direction where confining pressure generates compressive stress, the peak stress intensity factor at the crack tip decreases by up to 74.3 %, and the effective stress decreases by up to 47.6 %. Confining pressure simultaneously enhances the compressive strength of
[91] P. Hesammokri,B. Lukic,P. Isaksson .High-strain-rate fracture behavior of rock-like materials: Insights from Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar testing and dynamic phase-field modeling[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2026,141 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study integrates a hydrostatic–spectral–deviatoric decomposition within a dynamic phase-field finite element framework to assess its effectiveness in simulating fracture patterns in brittle materials subjected to high strain-rate compressive loading. The investigation focuses on Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar (SHPB) experiments using gypsum plaster specimens with central holes, tested in a synchronously assembled setup. The hydrostatic–spectral–deviatoric decomposition enables a distinction between tensile and compressive strain energy components to accurately model dynamic fracture processes in quasi-brittle materials under compressive and mixed-mode loading, where traditional formulations often fall short. To maintain consistency, the numerical simulations were calibrated using material parameters previously identified through quasi-static tests on the same material and different geometries. The simulated results closely mirrored experimental observations, successfully reproducing key features such as crack paths, propagation sequence, timing, boundary motion, and crack tip velocity. This enhanced modeling approach offers valuable insight into dynamic fracture behavior in brittle systems and underscores its potential for improving predictive capabilities under high strain-rate loading scenarios.
[92] Victor Bautista,Behnam Shahbazian,Mirmilad Mirsayar .Mixed-mode dynamic crack propagation analysis in anisotropic functionally varying microcellular structures[J].Results in Engineering,2025,25 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：For the first time, the mixed-mode dynamic fracture in anisotropic functionally varying microcellular structures is investigated herein. To this end, a recently developed homogenization MATLAB implementation capable of considering material and geometry-induced anisotropy is used, and a continuous medium with equivalent functionality distributed mechanical properties to the original microcellular domain is obtained. Then, the resulting material domain is subjected to dynamic loads, and the crack propagation is predicted by using a novel Timoshenko-based peridynamic model. This innovative method unprecedentedly accounts for a bond-length dependent shear influence factor and a shear strain-based failure criterion. Finally, numerous cases consisting of compact-tension (CT) and Kalthoff-Winkler specimens with several void sizes, shapes, and distribution patterns are numerically solved. The results demonstrate that the crack path is significantly influenced by the void distribution pattern near the crack tip, providing a foundation for engineering crack propagation to prevent it from reaching critical areas of a structure.
[93] Yu, Haiyue,Wang, Junxiang,Sun, Gang ,等.Dynamic damage model of rock-like materials based on peridynamic and fracture study of cross-fissured rocks under impact loading[J].International Journal of Damage Mechanics,2026,SAGE PUBLICATIONS LTD
摘要：To investigate the effects of intersection angle and depth of cross-fissures on the dynamic mechanical behavior of rock with internal cross-fissures, a damage constitutive model and a three-dimensional (3D) failure criterion for impact fracture were established within the bond-based peridynamics framework. By introducing bond force distance attenuation and progressive damage evolution mechanisms, a novel damage constitutive model was developed, and a dynamic 3D bond failure criterion was proposed to consistently couple the energy condition, strength constraint, and strain rate effect. Furthermore, the stretch corresponding to the peak bond force, traditionally solely determined by the macroscale strength, was extended to be jointly governed by the macroscale strength and bond microscale parameters. This modification characterizes the variability of the bond stretches corresponding to the peak bond forces in heterogeneous materials, thereby improving the model's capability to describe material heterogeneity and differences in local failure. 3D benchmark examples were conducted to compare various attenuation functions, quantitatively verifying that the exponential attenuation form yields the minimum overall error index. Based on three validation cases, the influences of internal cross-fissure angle and depth on impact stress response, 3D crack propagation path and energy distribution were systematically analyzed. Results indicate that under impact loading, increased cross-fissure depth decreases peak stress and energy utilization efficiency;at a constant depth, peak stress increases first and then decreases with the rising intersection angle. Crack propagation presents symmetry and eventually forms a funnel-shaped 3D crack, with the minimum damage degree inside the funnel.
[94] Ishii, Yosuke,Tanaka, Yuki,Biwa, Shiro .Numerical Analysis of Rapid Mode II Crack Propagation in Brittle Solids by Phase-field Method[J].Journal of the Society of Materials Science, Japan,2026,75 (5):431-437,Society of Materials Science Japan
摘要：Dynamic crack propagation in brittle solids is numerically analyzed using a two-dimensional finite element method based on the phase-field model of fracture to investigate the limiting crack velocity. Straight crack propagation without branching or kinking is achieved by modeling an elastically homogeneous and isotropic medium that contains a narrow rectangular region with a relatively low critical energy release rate. Mode I and mode II crack propagation are studied for two types of strain energy degradation functions in the phase-field model: quadratic and cubic forms. For both degradation functions, the mode I crack accelerates toward the Rayleigh wave velocity, which is the theoretically predicted limiting velocity according to linear elastic fracture mechanics. In contrast, the two degradation functions are found to yield different propagation characteristics for the mode II crack. With the quadratic degradation function, the crack velocity increases smoothly beyond the shear wave velocity. In the case of the cubic degradation function, however, the crack accelerates discontinuously from below the Rayleigh wave velocity to above the shear wave velocity due to the nucleation of a secondary crack ahead of the main crack tip, followed by coalescence of the secondary and main cracks. This behavior is consistent with theoretical predictions based on linear elastic fracture mechanics as well as previous molecular dynamics and finite difference simulations. © 2026 The Society of Materials Science, Japan.
[95] Chai, Yabo,Luo, Ning,Zhou, Jianan ,等.Mixed-mode I plus II dynamic fracture toughness and crack propagation mechanism of thermally treated CSTBD shale specimens[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,330 ,PERGAMON-ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD
摘要：Methane in-situ explosion fracturing (MISEF) enhances shale gas recovery by generating complex fracture networks through coupled thermal and dynamic loading. To elucidate shale fracturing behavior under such conditions, this study conducted mixed-mode (I + II) dynamic fracture experiments on thermally treated CSTBD shale specimens using a modified Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar (m-SHPB), high-speed imaging, and Digital Image Correlation (DIC). The evolution of dynamic fracture toughness was characterized, and the GMTS and EMTSN criteria were validated. Numerical simulations using three-dimensional finite element methods (FEM) revealed crack propagation mechanisms, highlighting the fracture characteristics and stress regulation effects. The results showed that thermal treatment significantly reduced dynamic fracture toughness across all modes, with mode I toughness decreasing from 4.113 to 1.880 MPa center dot m1/2, mode II from 5.198 to 2.183 MPa center dot m1/2, and mixed-mode (Me = 0.3 and 0.6) from 5.148 and 4.410 to 2.142 and 2.027 MPa center dot m1/2, respectively, as temperature increased from 25 degrees C to 250 degrees C. Compared to quasistatic loading, dynamic fracture toughness tended to follow the GMTS criterion associated with a smaller fracture process zone (FPZ) length. Crack velocity and path were strongly modedependent: mode I loading induced faster, tensile-driven propagation, whereas mixed-mode loading resulted in deflected and slower crack growth. Fracture was driven by a synergy of compressive-induced initiation and tensile-dominated propagation. These findings enhance the understanding of shale fracturing mechanisms and provide theoretical insights to optimize MISEF technology.
[96] Yong Yue,Xin Jin,Yidong Ren ,等.Simulation and experimental investigation of rolling contact fatigue crack propagation in pitch-bearing gears of offshore wind turbines[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2026,333 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study investigates rolling contact fatigue crack propagation in offshore wind turbine pitch-bearing gears using combined numerical and experimental methods. A 5 MW gear pair FEM model identified stress distributions and crack initiation sites, while a novel peridynamics approach simulated rolling contact fatigue (RCF)-driven crack evolution. Simulation results show maximum contact stress (1029.26 MPa) during single-tooth meshing under emergency braking, critically affecting crack behavior. Cracks exhibited dynamic “opening-closing-reopening” cycles, transitioning from Mode I to Mode II-dominant mixed-mode propagation at loads &gt;1000 MPa. The initial crack inclination angle significantly influences the propagation path: shallow-angle cracks (&lt;60°) tend to deflect towards the surface, leading to spalling, whereas steeper cracks (≥60°) promote vertical growth into the material interior, accompanied by branching. The study further identifies the interfaces of the material gradient layers (hardened-transition-substrate) as critical zones for crack deflection and branching. An increase in the friction coefficient (μ = 0.4) accelerates both surface spalling and crack branching. Experimental validation confirms the effectiveness of the numerical predictions, with the observed crack paths showing strong agreement with the simulation results. This research provides important theoretical insights for early damage detection and life prediction of pitch bearings in wind turbines.
[97] Wang, Xu,Yue, Zhongwen,Xue, Kejun ,等.Dynamic Fracture Characteristics of Layered Rock Mass With Two Beddings Under Explosive Loads of Slotted Charges[J].Fatigue & Fracture of Engineering Materials & Structures,2025,48 (6):2725-2742,WILEY
摘要：A large number of beddings inside layered rock masses can significantly affect the dynamic fracture characteristics of the rock mass. In this study, the propagation process of explosive cracks in layered rock masses was visualized using digital image correlation combined with high-speed photography technology, focusing on the dynamic fracture mechanical behavior of layered rock masses with two beddings under an explosive load of slotted charges. The results indicate that, in the fracture process of layered rock masses, a large number of microscopic cracks in the front area of the crack tip are continuously activated, developed, and fused, ultimately converging into macroscopic main cracks that can cause fracture failure. During the dynamic fracture process of the layered rock masses, the displacement field of the specimen exhibited a clear gradient, with obvious displacement contour lines appearing and no discontinuity in the contour lines at the beddings. Under the premise of an appropriate spacing between the two beddings, the continuous reflection and superposition of stress waves between the two beddings causes the rock mass to crack again, resulting in secondary cracks. Vertical bedding has an inhibitory effect on the propagation behavior of the main explosive crack.
[98] Bautista, Victor,Shahbazian, Behnam,Mirsayar, Mirmilad .Mixed-Mode Timoshenko-Based Peridynamics for Dynamic Crack Propagation in Functionally Graded Materials[J].Fatigue & Fracture of Engineering Materials & Structures,2025,48 (5):2191-2205,WILEY
摘要：A recently developed Timoshenko-based peridynamic model with a variable micropolar shear influence factor is extended to study the behavior of dynamic crack propagation in functionally graded materials (FGMs). To this end, first, the proposed model is validated against two experimental three-point bending benchmark problems with different material functions as well as varying loading rates and durations. Then, numerous additional cases with different boundary conditions and material distribution are studied to predict crack initiation and propagation in such mediums. The examples consist of three-point bending and Kalthoff-Winkler specimens with various material functions under dynamic loads. Finally, the effects of material anisotropy induced by functionally varying material properties on crack propagation path are addressed. It is shown that this new model is advantageous because of its capability to account for shear deformation effects in the bonds previously ignored by the original bond-based peridynamic models. Moreover, comparing the proposed modified bond-based model to more complex methods, such as state-based peridynamics, reveals that the simplicity of the current approach results in lower computational costs while still achieving comparable results.
[99] Wang, Kai,Yang, Chengxiang,Dong, Yan ,等.Dynamic Fracture Behaviour of Cracked H-Shaped Beam-Column Joints with Beam Ends Supported by Columns[J].Buildings,2026,16 (3),MDPI
摘要：The study of the mechanical response and crack propagation behaviour of H-shaped beam-column specimens is of great significance for ensuring the safety and stability of buildings. As a connection structure that has gained ubiquity in modern shopping malls and high-rise buildings, an in-depth exploration of the failure mechanisms of H-shaped beam-column components will facilitate more accurate technical support for building maintenance and service life prediction. The present study employs a combination of drop-weight impact tests and the caustic method to systematically investigate the dynamic fracture characteristics of H-shaped beam-column joints under various prefabricated crack configurations. The results demonstrate that the number and location of cracks in H-shaped beam-column specimens have a significant impact on the propagation path and velocity. Specifically, beam-end cracks are prone to bifurcation, while column-end cracks predominantly initiate from the beam-column intersection. This phenomenon is particularly evident in specimens with prefabricated cracks at both the beam ends and column ends. The propagation of cracks at the beam ends is arrested due to the presence of compressive stress when they reach the beam-column intersection. During this period, the stress intensity of the column-end cracks increases significantly, with a growth rate of 33%.
[100] 王杰,陈诺,张冠天 ,等.基于有效塑性耗散能因子的变幅载荷裂纹扩展数值模拟与分析[J].塑性工程学报,2026,33 (3):225-233
摘要：建立了关于塑性耗散能因子的双参数疲劳裂纹扩展速率模型,并结合CT试件的裂纹扩展数值仿真模型研究了随机载荷和等效变幅载荷下的裂纹扩展行为。建立了基于粒子群算法的材料参数逆向优化方法,通过对实验数据进行拟合获得了裂纹扩展速率模型中的3个材料参数C、m和p。结果表明,随机载荷作用下的裂纹尖端后方的裂纹面会产生不规则的塑性变形,并导致裂纹扩展过程中间歇性地产生裂纹面闭合;等效变幅载荷下的裂纹扩展寿命均下降,块载荷过渡时的裂纹闭合也是导致载荷次序效应的主要原因之一。
[101] Zengle Li,Xiaoyu Liu,Huimei Zhang ,等.A dynamic fracture mechanics criterion considering strain-rate effect of average fragment size for quasi-brittle materials under uniaxial compression[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2026,143 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Although researchers have proposed various dynamic strength criteria, they still fail to fully couple fragment size evolution, overlooking the closed-loop mechanism of crack propagation-fragment formation-strength variation. This paper systematically analyzes experimental results and existing theoretical models to propose and verify a strain-rate model for average fragment size (SRAFS model). The analysis indicates that average fragment size remains approximately constant at low strain-rates, decreases sharply nonlinearly, and finally converges to a constant value with increasing strain-rate. It is found that the SRAFS model accurately describes the nonlinear relationship between average fragment size and strain-rate. On this basis, a dynamic fracture mechanics (DFM) criterion considering the strain-rate effect of average fragment size is established, followed by parametric analysis and comprehensive validation against other criteria. The DFM criterion clarifies the strain-rate effect mechanism of quasi-brittle materials' dynamic unconfined compressive strength (USC): at the peak of the stress-strain curve, higher strain-rates induce more high-stress regions (uncracked tensile cracks) at defects tip to enhance strength; in the post-peak stage, they promote more tensile crack propagation, reducing average fragment size. Parametric analysis indicates that the model parameters collectively influence the medium-low strain-rate strength associated with initial defects, the strain-rate threshold for significant strength growth, the steepness of the nonlinear relationship between dynamic USC and strain-rate, and the overall strength variation across the entire strain-rate range. Validated with experimental data of five quasi-brittle materials covering two classics dynamic UCS variation patterns, the DFM criterion achieves high determination coefficients (<em>R</em><sup>2</sup> = 0.8429–0.9992), and outperforms the Gebbeken-Greulich and NDUS criteria for ice, silicon carbid
[102] Hung Thanh Tran .A simplified gradient-enhanced damage model based on energy limiters for crack propagation under time-dependent loading[J].Finite Elements in Analysis and Design,2025,252 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper presents the development and investigation of a simplified energy limiter-based nonlocal damage model for dynamic crack propagation in brittle media. The key idea underlying the proposed model is that crack growth under impact loading is primarily influenced by the tensile component of the strain tensor. Consequently, the energy-based damage-driving term is simplified to a strain-based counterpart, which is integrated using the first principal strain. This simplification leads to a model that is not only easier to implement but also more effective in capturing dynamic crack propagation compared to the original theory. In addition, the computational framework incorporates an energy limiter-based gradient damage formulation with a damage threshold, enabling natural crack initiation and propagation while significantly reducing spurious damage. One of the distinctive features of the proposed approach is the treatment of the nonlocal crack field as a primary unknown, alongside displacements. This allows the use of identical shape functions for both fields within the finite element analysis, enhancing consistency and computational efficiency. Consistent with classical continuum damage mechanics, the model can accurately simulate arbitrary and complex multiple crack paths, including three-dimensional (3D) crack propagation. Furthermore, to provide a more efficient numerical framework under time-dependent loading conditions with complex crack patterns, an explicit dynamic fracture algorithm is employed. This algorithm utilizes the central difference method, the row-sum technique for mass lumping, and a consistent procedure for updating the kinematic and damage-related terms. The advantages and modeling capabilities of the proposed strain-based gradient-enhanced damage formulation are demonstrated through representative numerical examples of dynamic fracture under shear, tension, and compression loading scenarios.
[103] Galvis, Andres F. .Phase-field modelling of quasi-static and dynamic brittle fracture: A FreeFEM plus plus implementation[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2026,333 ,PERGAMON-ELSEVIER SCIENCE LTD
摘要：This work presents a robust phase-field formulation for brittle fracture, combining a quasi-monolithic solution strategy with a frozen history field, Houbolt time integration for dynamic/- transient regimes, and adaptive remeshing in FreeFEM++. This approach enhances numerical robustness, simplifies parameter calibration, and facilitates extensions to multi-physics fracture problems. Despite widespread interest, building on this framework, a key contribution is the first open serial implementation of this framework in FreeFEM++, offering advantages in mesh adaptivity, solver flexibility, and concise variational syntax. The mesh adaptivity feature concentrates resolution near evolving crack tips to efficiently capture fracture evolution. The implementation is validated on standard benchmarks, showing close agreement with reference crack paths, load-displacement, and dissipated energy responses. By releasing a concise, well-documented FreeFEM++ code, this work bridges a reproducibility gap and establishes a methodological foundation for future developments.
[104] Hao Qiu,Rongyuan Chen,Yichao Wang ,等.Experimental and numerical study of the dynamic crack propagation behavior of mortar-granite specimens with different inclination interfaces[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,136 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：An in-depth investigation into the dynamic fracture behavior at the interface between high-strength mortar and rock was performed in this study. Utilizing a side material cleavage triangle (SMCT) configuration, this research integrated the experimental–numerical method, and crack propagation gauge (CPG) to explore the effects of varying loading speeds, interfacial inclination angles, and high-strength mortar strength on interfacial crack propagation behavior. The microstructure and thickness of the interfacial zone were analyzed. Additionally, Python scripting was employed to enable the batch embedding of cohesive elements into ABAQUS models. The results indicated that with an increase in high-strength mortar strength from 80 MPa to 100 MPa, there was a significant decrease in the thickness of the interfacial transition zone. In addition, as the interfacial inclination angle of the specimens increased from 90° to 106°, the average fracture toughness and energy in the high-strength mortar region increased by 16 % and 44 %, respectively, while the granite region increased by 15 % and 25 %, respectively. In the models, where cohesive elements were systematically embedded in batches, the crack propagation paths were found to align closely with the test results. During crack extension, the tensile stress at the crack tip was observed to be significantly greater than the shear stress.
[105] Liping Li,Xiaochu Chen,Chenglu Gao ,等.Peridynamics simulating of dynamics crack propagation in rock mass under blasting load[J].Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory,2025,140 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：It is important to study the crack propagation and failure criterion of fractured rock masses under dynamic blasting loads to ensure the safety and stability of tunnels constructed using the drill-and-blast method. Based on the idea of conventional peridynamics, a peridynamics constitutive model of the pull-compression composite failure of rock materials and a peridynamics simulation method for crack propagation in a fractured rock mass under a blasting load were established. In addition, the criterion for the stress wave incident angle and in-situ stress state for crack propagation in a rock mass were investigated. The incident angle of the stress waves was found to affect the crack propagation. When the incident angle was 0°, new cracks propagated parallel to prefabricated cracks. When the incident angle was 15°-75°, wing cracks formed at the tips on both sides of a prefabricated crack, and the initiation and propagation angles of these new cracks increased with the incident angle. The in-situ stress affected the propagation direction of an explosive-generated crack and the range of the fracture zone. When unidirectional stress was applied, the radial main crack expanded along the direction of the stress, and the range of the fracture zone decreased with an increase in stress. The applicability and accuracy of the proposed dynamic disturbance peridynamics simulation method for solving the problem of dynamic failure and crack growth in a rock mass were verified based on previous physical and model test results.
[106] Xu, Hongpeng,Peng, Jianyu,Cui, Song ,等.Effect of delay timing on dynamic fracture behaviour of rock: numerical and experimental approaches[J].International Journal of Mining, Reclamation and Environment,2025,TAYLOR & FRANCIS LTD
摘要：Dual-hole blast experiments were conducted, and the fracture processes on the specimens' free surfaces were captured. The fracture surface roughness coefficient (FSRC) was quantitatively analysed to assess the degree of blast-induced surface irregularity. To further investigate the dynamic response, 3D finite element models were built in LS-DYNA to simulate stress wave propagation, stress response, and damage evolution under varying delay initiation conditions. The results revealed that at zero or short delay times, a unified fracture zone was formed. Cracks are mainly concentrated in the central region, following an uneven distribution. In contrast, longer delay times led to more independent fracture processes between the holes. The first blast hole provides initial cracks or damage zones for the second hole, resulting in a more uniform crack distribution. Under short-delay initiation, stress waves interacted in the collision zone between the two holes, resulting in localised stress enhancement that promoted crack propagation within this region. The relatively low FSRC values observed between adjacent blast holes further confirmed that stress wave superposition facilitated crack coalescence, thereby improving the continuity and smoothness of the blast contour. Moreover, crack propagation from the first blast hole was found to influence the second hole's fracturing behaviour, with secondary cracks preferentially extending along pre-existing paths rather than initiating new radial fractures.
[107] Buqing Liu,Hong Su,Yue Gong ,等.Influence mechanism of void hole spacing on blast-induced crack propagation[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,139 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Void holes structures are widely present in natural rock masses and frequently emerge equivalently in engineering due to delayed initiation designs in blasting, significantly influencing the propagation behavior of blast-induced cracks. To investigate the regulatory mechanism of void hole spacing on blast-induced crack propagation characteristics, this study employed dynamic laser caustics experiments combined with AUTODYN numerical simulations to systematically examine the dynamic fracture behavior of blast-induced cracks under varying void hole spacings. The results indicate that void holes exhibit remarkable inhibitory effects on crack propagation. As the void hole spacing decreases from 40 mm to 10 mm, the blast crack propagation length decreases by 7.2 %, 9.8 %, 12.9 % and 17.4 %, respectively. With the decrease of the void hole spacing, the inhibition intensity increases significantly. The crack propagation process demonstrates distinct phases: during the phase away from void holes, reflected waves temporarily promote crack extension; when cracks enter the inter-hole region, vertical compressive stress concentration zones markedly suppress crack growth; after cracks penetrate through void holes, diffraction waves cause a transient rebound in stress intensity factors. Numerical simulations show high consistency with experimental observations, validating the spatiotemporal regulatory effect of void hole spacing on blast-induced crack propagation mechanisms. These findings provide theoretical foundations and experimental support for damage control in surrounding rock, perimeter hole arrangement optimization, and precision contour blasting design in engineering practices.
[108] Changzheng Lu,Zhaolong Ge,Zhe Zhou ,等.Dynamic hydraulic fracture arrest mechanisms in layered brittle-ductile strata: a DIC-based analysis[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2026,341 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Hydraulic fracture propagation across interfaces in layered heterogeneous stratum is a fundamental problem in fracture mechanics. In ductile interlayers, fracture arrest frequently occurs, yet the instantaneous dynamic response and energy dissipation mechanisms at the crack tip remain incompletely understood. To elucidate the propagation inhibition mechanism, this study conducted visible fracturing experiments on coal-rock-like composite specimens. Combined with high-speed photography and digital image correlation (DIC), the full-field strain evolution during fracture propagation and the quantitative characterization of dynamic stress intensity factor (SIF) were realized. The results show that fracture deflection in the near-wellbore region causes fracture tortuosity, which significantly inhibits width development; material heterogeneity dominates the difference in propagation velocity. When the fracture propagates from the hard roof into the soft coal seam, the velocity decreases by approximately 50%. The SIF exhibits discontinuous evolution characteristics at the interface. It rises in an “attractive” manner when the fracture approaches the interface from the high-modulus medium and drops sharply after penetrating it, while SIF of the other tip in the hard strata shows an increasing trend. Fracture inhibition in soft coal originates from an energy deficit mechanism of “supply-demand imbalance”, that is, stiffness mismatch limits driving force, while rapid expansion of the fracture process zone (FPZ) in coal greatly increases the demand for energy consumption. This study reveals the energy competition mechanism between driving force supply and FPZ dissipation, offering a critical mechanistic framework for predicting fracture arrest in layered brittle-ductile media.
[109] Nagatakiya, Hokuto,Kobayashi, Shunsuke,Sakumichi, Naoyuki ,等.Steady-State Crack Propagation in Rubber-Like Materials: from Neo-Hookean to Gent-Type Models[J].Nihon Reoroji Gakkaishi,2026,54 (1):39-45,SOC RHEOLOGY, JAPAN
摘要：We investigate steady-state mode I crack propagation in nonlinear elastic solids using the finite element method. The neo-Hookean model yields a parabolic crack opening profile and r(-1/2) strain singularity, where r is the distance ahead of the crack tip, for all crack velocities considered, consistent with linear elastic fracture mechanics despite its nonlinearity. In contrast, Gent-type models exhibit sharper crack opening profiles and strain plateaus near the crack tip. These findings differ from the weakly nonlinear theory, which predicts a sharp, non-parabolic crack profile and r(-1) singularity. Compared to the neo-Hookean case, Gent-type models show weaker stress, strain, and their singularities for the same crack velocity and applied strain, implying that strong nonlinearity may improve toughness.
[110] Tang, Jun,Wang, Hai-Bo,Zhu, Jian ,等.Experimental Study on Fracture Toughness and Crack Propagation Characteristics of Weak Cementation Coal Rock under Impact Load[J].BLASTING,2025,42 (4):40-50,BLASTING Magazine Editorial Office, Wuhan University of Technology
摘要：Temperature and moisture content critically govern coal rock strength, while dynamic load disturbances significantly compound the complexity of its failure mechanisms. Red sandstone and compacted coal were combined to fabricate coal-rock composite specimens featuring preformed central fractures, subsequently conditioned under controlled thermal (25℃, 0℃,-5℃) and hydration (dry/saturated) regimes. The dynamic characteristics were evaluated using a Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar (SHPB) system, with high-speed imaging capturing the failure mechanisms. The study investigates the impact of temperature and moisture conditions on the fracture toughness and crack growth behavior of coal-rock combinations under varying impact pressures. The results demonstrate that both coal/rock specimens and coal-rock composites exhibit a pronounced strain rate effect in dynamic fracture toughness. Increasing impact pressure elevates the peak stress intensity factor while shortening its time-to-peak. Notably, temperature and moisture content solely influence the peak stress intensity factor without altering its temporal evolution. For coal-rock composite specimens composed of identical materials, the dynamic fracture toughness is predominantly governed by the impact-end material due to its larger volume compared to the prefabricated crack-end region. When the impact-end material possesses higher dynamic fracture toughness, the specimen exhibits greater overall fracture resistance. Saturated specimens show lower dynamic fracture toughness but faster crack propagation speeds compared to dry specimens. The dynamic fracture toughness and crack propagation speed of specimens increase with rising impact pressure. In contrast, as temperature decreases, the dynamic fracture toughness initially increases before declining. This study aims to thoroughly investigate the fracture toughness characteristics and crack propagation mechanisms of weakly cemented coal and rock masses in western China. The findi
[111] Ma, Minghui,Yu, Yilei,Gao, Guangfa .Dynamic fracture damage mechanism and impact resistance of ceramics under impact load[J].Journal of Materials Science,2026,61 (7):4384-4400,SPRINGER
摘要：This study experimentally investigates the fracture and damage characteristics of different ceramic targets under impact loading. The research finds that radial cracks form during the loading phase and extend during unloading, appearing earlier than circumferential cracks. The introduction of a steel backing plate enhances the stiffness of the target, inhibiting the generation of circumferential cracks but not altering the stress state on the front face of the ceramic. Micro-fracture mode analysis indicates that Al2O3 exhibits intergranular fracture characteristics, while B4C shows trans-granular fracture characteristics, and SiC exhibits both fracture modes. In terms of crack propagation dynamics, the path of conical cracks is regulated by both the internal stress field within the ceramic and the reflected tensile pulses, with the cone angle being independent of impact velocity but significantly influenced by ceramic thickness and material properties. Specifically, the radial crack propagation in Al2O3 behind the formation of the fractured cone, whereas in SiC and B4C, it is the opposite. It is noteworthy that the diameter of the perforation is only related to the size of the projectile head and the material's shear strength, independent of thickness and impact velocity. Furthermore, the load variations among different ceramics at the same impact velocity are significantly different, primarily manifesting in the peak load and the dwell time of projectile. The study reveals the failure mechanisms and performance balance rules of different ceramic systems under dynamic loading, providing important theoretical basis for the optimization design of protective materials.
[112] Song, Guokang,Yang, Renshu,Xu, Peng ,等.Effect of Water-Deck Length on Blast-Induced Crack Propagation in Axial Decoupled Charges[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2026,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：This study proposes an in situ visualization method to investigate the dynamic fracturing behavior in axial decoupled charge blasting with water deck. Results demonstrated that blast-induced cracks initiated earlier at water-deck position and exhibited accelerated radial propagation, with the water-deck significantly enhancing crack velocity and fragmentation efficiency. The dual-end water-deck configuration achieved a peak initial crack velocity of 248.62 m/s and a maximum damage index of 1.668. Calibrated polymethacrylates model parameters enabled numerical simulation of blasting-induced dynamic fracture incorporating water-deck effects. Under explosive loading, the water-deck induced stress concentration and enhanced energy transfer efficiency. Compared with traditional charge structure, internal energy increased by 23.3 to 26.6% and blasting damage effect was improved by 29.47 to 54.97%. These findings provide more effective guidance for precision-controlled blasting in deep mining and tunneling.
[113] 孙文翔,缪广红,牛运玖 ,等.爆炸荷载下裂隙介质裂纹扩展的数值模拟研究[J].河南城建学院学报,2025,34 (5):1-6
摘要：为探讨爆炸载荷作用下预制裂隙对爆生裂纹动态扩展的影响规律,采用ANSYS/LS-DYNA软件,以含预制裂隙的有机玻璃板为介质,设置炮孔中心到预制裂隙垂直距离D为2~7 cm,分析不同间距条件下预制裂隙和炮孔周围裂纹的扩展特征,以及预制裂隙对应力波传播的屏障效应。在预制裂隙两侧布设测点,监测有效应力峰值,研究应力波在不同距离D下入射到预制裂隙后的衰减情况。结果表明:预制裂隙对裂纹扩展及应力波的传播均有显著影响。预制裂隙周围主要出现了翼裂纹、径向裂纹和层裂裂纹。翼裂纹的扩展长度随炮孔-裂隙间距的增大而递减,但其起裂角度逐渐增大。当D为2、3 cm时,预制裂隙与炮孔间形成爆炸空腔;在其他间距条件下,炮孔与预制裂隙产生了层裂裂纹。预制裂隙对应力波传播具有阻碍作用,且该阻碍效应随D的增大而逐渐减弱。
[114] Wei, Shengyu,Zhai, Yue,Wu, Hao ,等.Effects of heterogeneity on Mode I dynamic fracture mechanical properties and fracture-surface micromorphological characteristics of granite[J].Construction and Building Materials,2026,522 ,ELSEVIER SCI LTD
摘要：The mesoscopic heterogeneity of granite governs its dynamic fracture mechanics and is a central concern in geotechnical engineering. Using a SHPB and DIC, we investigated the dynamic fracture-mechanical properties of granite specimens with different heterogeneity indices using NSCB specimens. We constructed a 3D SHPB numerical model through FDM-DEM coupling to further examine the effects of mesoscopic heterogeneity on macroscopic mechanical response and mesoscopic fracture damage. We also quantified fracture-surface micromorphology by 3D scanning combined with MATLAB. The results indicate that dynamic fracture toughness and dynamic fracture energy exhibit pronounced loading-rate effects across different heterogeneity indices, and their sensitivity to loading rate decreases with increasing heterogeneity. With larger heterogeneity indices, microcrack propagation becomes more complex and failure is predominantly tensile;as the loading rate increases, crack paths transition from intergranular to transgranular. Fracture-surface roughness is negatively correlated with loading rate, whereas larger heterogeneity indices yield higher roughness indices.
[115] Houtian Zhang,Qishen Wang,Jianyin Lei ,等.Experimental study on the effects of joint span and shape on crack initiation and propagation in PMMA plates by the caustics method[J].Theoretical & Applied Mechanics Letters,2026,16 (3),Elsevier Science
摘要：This study employed a dynamic caustics system integrated with a Hopkinson pressure bar, Schlieren optics, and a high-speed camera to investigate how joint span and shape affect crack initiation and propagation. First, crack penetration into joints with different spans (10 mm, 30 mm, 50 mm) and different shapes (“u” and “n”) was visualized. Then, crack-tip stress intensity factors and propagation velocity were measured by high-speed caustics patterns. Finally, fractal dimensions of crack trajectories were obtained to quantitatively evaluate the complexity of the crack layout. Based on loading time, the crack behavior is divided into 4 phases: first precrack initiation, propagation toward the joint, secondary initiation from the joint and final propagation toward the boundary. Since the phase 1 duration increases with span, crack initiation from precracks clearly depends on span length. In phases 2 and 3, reflected waves occur from the joint interface; furthermore, they are confirmed to be Rayleigh waves through wave velocity. Meanwhile, the reflected Rayleigh waves from the “n”-shaped joint have a significant effect on crack propagation in phase 2. In phase 4, crack trajectories initiating from joint ends are heavily influenced by joint span, which is associated with crack interaction. Furthermore, different opening orientations (“u” and “n”) of arc-shaped joints have different effects on crack behavior. The “u”-shaped joint exhibits crack behavior similar to that of same-span line-shaped joints. The “n”-shaped joint demonstrates a strong fracture resistance. This work advances the understanding of fracture resistance as influenced by joint span and shape variations.
[116] Fan, Xiangqian,Liu, Jueding,Zou, Li ,等.Dynamic Fracture Behavior of Fiber Reinforced Polymer-Reinforced Concrete Beams Under Different Initial Static Loads[J].Fatigue & Fracture of Engineering Materials & Structures,2025,48 (12):5335-5351,WILEY
摘要：To investigate the dynamic fracture behavior of fiber reinforced polymer (FRP)-reinforced concrete structures, the dynamic fracture tests under different initial static loads were conducted in this paper, and using acoustic emission (AE) and digital image correlation (DIC) techniques for real-time monitoring. The test results indicate that while the initial static load has negligible influence on crack initiation load and toughness, it significantly affects other fracture parameters. The crack resistance load, ultimate load, crack extension length, crack resistance toughness, and instability toughness exhibit an exponential decay relationship with increasing initial static load. The FPZ length increases with increasing initial static load. The AE analysis revealed signal variations correlated with internal damage progression, with lower static loads promoting crack propagation along the beam span. The DIC-derived strain fields confirmed horizontal strain and displacement as reliable crack indicators, remaining insensitive to initial static load changes at the ultimate load point. These findings provide a predictive model for FRP-reinforced concrete dynamic fracture behavior.
[117] 王雁冰,付代睿,吴后为 ,等.冲击荷载下含层理介质动态裂纹扩展特性研究[J].工程科学学报,2023,45 (5):701-713,Science Press
摘要：利用数字激光动态焦散线实验系统(DLDC),对含不同层理角度(30°,45°和60°)的3组有机玻璃板(Polymethyl methacrylate,PMMA)试件进行三点弯落锤冲击试验,借助高速相机记录了试件的断裂过程和裂纹尖端的动态焦散斑形状变化过程,得到了其Ⅰ、Ⅱ型动态应力强度因子的变化特征,并分析了其裂纹尖端位移及速度曲线.结合离散格子弹簧模型(DLSM),对比分析了试件的断裂形态,得到了裂纹尖端的应力场和运动场的变化规律,研究了应力波在层理处的透射和反射特征,最后利用DLSM分析了层理参数对介质断裂特性的影响.结果表明,试件的断裂特征,裂纹的起裂时间等都随层理角度的变化而不同,裂纹在不同角度层理内扩展速度不同;试件的断裂表现出拉剪复合特征;裂纹在抵达层理前速度在某一数值上下波动;层理的弹性模量和厚度都会对试件的动态断裂特性产生影响.
[118] Horikawa, Keitaro,Hoshino, Masato,Uesugi, Kentaro .Evaluation of crack propagation in high-concentration Al-Mg-Si alloys using synchrotron X-ray imaging[J].Journal of Japan Institute of Light Metals,2026,76 (2):99-104,Japan Institute of Light Metals
摘要：Dynamic fracture behavior of Al-Mg-Si-based alloys was monitored through synchrotron X-ray computed microto-mography and X-ray high-speed radiography during the tensile test. We have succeeded in measuring the internal crack propagation rate by X-ray radiography with high-speed microscopy. It was revealed that the internal crack propagation rate was much higher than the surface crack propagation in the Al-Mg-Si-based alloys containing a high amount of impurity elements. Ductility was changed according to the difference in second-phase particles contained in the Al-Mg-Si-based alloys. It was also shown that hydrogen atoms contained in the Al-Mg-Si alloys were released in the progress of cracks and fractures. © 2026 The Japan Institute of Light Metals.
[119] Chao, Jiannan,Li, Jiasheng,Zeng, Zhixin ,等.An explicit phase field shell particle method for modeling dynamic fracture and fragmentation of thin shells[J].Thin-Walled Structures,2026,228 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：<ul class="list"><li class="react-xocs-list-item"><span class="list-label">•</span><span class="list-content"><div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="d1e1940">Phase field fracture theory is unified with a locking-free shell particle method.</div></span></li><li class="react-xocs-list-item"><span class="list-label">•</span><span class="list-content"><div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="d1e1945">A phase field-guided algorithm converts damaged shell particles into MPM particles.</div></span></li><li class="react-xocs-list-item"><span class="list-label">•</span><span class="list-content"><div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="d1e1950">Adaptive conversion preserves mass and momentum, and avoids mesh distortion.</div></span></li></ul>
[120] Anupama S.,J.M. Chandra Kishen .Fracture behavior and toughening mechanisms of brittle composites with stiff and compliant inclusions: A dynamic phase field study[J].International Journal of Solids and Structures,2025,321 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Brittle fracture is one of the most common failure modes in engineering materials, often leading to sudden and unpredictable structural failure. While phase-field methods have significantly simplified brittle fracture simulations, the effects of material heterogeneity and interface properties on dynamic fracture behavior remain insufficiently explored. This gap is addressed in the present work by investigating the role of inclusions with varying stiffness and interface strengths on crack propagation in brittle composites. Using a dynamic phase-field fracture model, we examine the impact of elastodynamic effects and interface properties on fracture behavior. The study identifies key toughening mechanisms, such as crack deflection, crack arrest, and crack bridging, which contribute to toughness enhancement. Notably, the incorporation of compliant inclusions with strong interfaces results in a substantial improvement of fracture toughness by promoting pseudo-ductility. These findings provide important insights into the design of artificial composite materials, highlighting how the careful selection of inclusion properties and interface strength can optimize the balance between toughness, strength, and stiffness.
[121] Quanqi Zhu,Zhen Li,Zida Liu ,等.Mixed mode fracture properties and surface morphology of CSTBD diorite under coupled static-dynamic loading[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,326 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Mixed mode fracture in hard rocks subjected to both in-situ stress and dynamic disturbance frequently arises in deep rock engineering. Consequently, understanding the mixed mode fracture parameters and behaviour of hard rocks under coupled static-dynamic loading is imperative for accurately assessing rock structure stability and optimizing rock blasting strategies. In this research, a modified SHPB was applied to explore mixed mode I/II fracture properties of CSTBD diorite with varying mode mixites (<em>M<sup>e</sup></em>) under coupled loading. The effects of <em>M<sup>e</sup></em> on dynamic fracture trajectory, crack propagation velocity (CPV) and crack mouth opening displacement (CMOD) were characterized using HS-DIC technique. The fractal dimension of fracture surfaces was analyzed with the aid of a laser 3D scanner and box counting method, and the micro-fracture mechanism was further quantitatively revealed by the proposed SEM-DL method. The results indicate that as <em>M<sup>e</sup></em> increases, the peak load, <em>K</em><sub>It</sub>, <em>K<sub>eff</sub></em> and allowable CMOD all increase monotonically, while <em>K</em><sub>IIt</sub> and CPV decrease, and the total fracture energy (<em>G<sub>t</sub></em>) first decreases and then increases. Furthermore, the MTS criterion yields optimal predictions for the mixed mode I/II fracture toughness of specimens under coupled loading. Observations show that the crack initiation time, position and propagation path of primary and secondary cracks are governed by <em>M<sup>e</sup></em>, while the variation of <em>M<sup>e</sup></em> has almost no influence upon the <em>meso</em>-roughness of fracture surfaces. The micro-fracture identification results reveal that the fracture surface of diorite under coupled loading demonstrates micro mixed mode fracture features dominated by tensile.
[122] Wenbo Yang,Zhenian Wang,Linlin Yang ,等.An accelerated XFEM framework for fatigue crack propagation analysis of shield tunnel linings subjected to cyclic train loads[J].Computers and Geotechnics,2026,196 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Shield tunnel linings are susceptible to cumulative damage from cyclic train loads, posing significant long-term operational risks to metro systems. This paper focuses on ensuring the structural safety of shield tunnel segments under prolonged dynamic loading environments. Building on an in-depth study of concrete’s microstructural degradation mechanisms under fatigue, a fatigue-enhanced Continuum Damage Mechanics-Extended Finite Element Method (CDM-XFEM) framework was developed. This framework integrated a micro-random fracture model, a fatigue memory tensor to capture directional damage accumulation, and thermodynamic consistency principles to ensure physical validity. Furthermore, an innovative cyclic jump acceleration algorithm was developed, employing second-order Taylor extrapolation to efficiently handle damage and memory variables. Through rigorous comparisons of simulation results with prototype experimental data and full-scale numerical benchmarks, the proposed physics-based, accelerated computational model was found to effectively and accurately assess fatigue life and crack propagation characteristics, outperforming traditional approaches in capturing nonlinear behaviors. To address the prohibitive computational costs of high-cycle fatigue analysis, an accelerated algorithm was applied to derive precise three-dimensional fracture development laws under varying initial crack geometries, providing valuable insights for tunnel maintenance and design optimization.
[123] 章凯羽,么永政,徐伟 ,等.初始裂纹倾角对圆柱滚子轴承次表面裂纹扩展的影响[J].合肥工业大学学报（自然科学版）,2024,47 (5):596-605
摘要：为探究次表面裂纹倾斜角度对圆柱滚子轴承应力分布及裂纹扩展的影响,文章基于断裂力学、损伤力学等理论基础,应用扩展有限元法建立圆柱滚子轴承的有限元模型,模拟滚道次表面不同倾角的初始裂纹在外力载荷下的动态扩展过程,分析讨论次表面裂纹尖端的应力随裂纹倾角的变化情况以及裂纹尖端的应力对裂纹扩展的影响。模拟结果表明:在圆柱滚子压力载荷作用下,初始倾角在0°~30.0°范围内的次表面裂纹扩展主要受水平方向应力S 11的影响,次表面水平裂纹两端处的扩展同步对称进行;随着初始次表面裂纹逆时针旋转后倾角的增加,裂纹扩展速率增大,裂纹左端扩展长度增长,且增幅均由快到慢并趋于稳定状态,裂纹左端扩展角度增大,裂纹右端的扩展受到抑制。次表面裂纹的扩展速率、扩展长度、扩展角度比较结果表明,水平或较小角度的次表面裂纹扩展对损伤轴承寿命的影响较小。
[124] Qiao, Yanhe,Liu, Panyong,Gu, Xin ,等.A coupled thermo-hygro-mechanical peridynamics for soil drying-wetting cycles: crack propagation and healing[J].Acta Geotechnica,2026,21 (1):477-504,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：Soil drying-wetting (D-W) cycles, a widespread natural phenomenon, pose significant challenges to numerical modeling due to coupled multi-physical interactions, dynamic crack evolution, and degradation of hydro-mechanical properties. To simulate continuous D-W cycles, this study develops a fully coupled thermo-hygro-mechanical ordinary state-based peridynamic (THM OSB-PD) model. The proposed framework innovatively incorporates a fracture-healing criterion and a reduction function to model drying-induced cracking, wetting-phase healing, and progressive deterioration of mechanical strength during D-W cycles. Using a sequential staggered implicit solution algorithm to ensure convergence and efficiency, the model reproduces experimental observations, such as crack memory, sequential healing, and crack evolution characteristics. Meanwhile, hydraulic hysteresis is captured by embedding dynamic soil-water characteristic curve (SWCC) parameters into moisture diffusion equations. Moreover, comparative analysis of isothermal and non-isothermal D-W cycles reveals differences in crack network morphology, moisture content and matric suction distribution, vertical strain, and SWCCs, underscoring the critical influence of temperature. The results demonstrate that the proposed THM OSB-PD model effectively captures crack propagation and healing during D-W cycles, providing a foundation for investigating soil behavior under hydraulic cycling.
[125] Kang Zhao,Tingjun Zhang,Duo Meng .Research on crack propagation of asphalt binder under torsional shear fatigue load[J].Case Studies in Construction Materials,2025,23 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Fatigue cracking is the main disease of asphalt pavement caused by repeated traffic loads. Asphalt binders are the main component of asphalt pavement, and their fatigue performance is closely related to asphalt pavement. At present, the fatigue cracking mechanism of asphalt binder is unclear, and more is based on theoretical calculation methods to characterize the crack propagation during the testing process. Therefore, this paper is based on the dynamic shear rheometer (DSR) to study the crack length in asphalt binders under different load levels and test temperatures and to quantify the cohesive delamination caused by fatigue in asphalt binders using crack length. The fracture morphology of the specimens after the experiment was evaluated using the image method, and a new crack evaluation index, CI, was proposed. The master curve constructed based on CI can be used to characterize the development of specimen cracks over a larger range of load levels. The fatigue crack propagation equation based on the CI coupling fatigue process, strain level, and temperature can accurately predict the crack propagation process in cylindrical specimens. Using CI and fatigue crack propagation indicators under different test conditions is significant for predicting crack propagation during shear fatigue testing.
[126] Kai Wu,Qingshan Meng,Shizhan Lv ,等.Analysis of fracture process zone of coral reef limestone under dynamic impact[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,138 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The cohesive zone model is an important model for describing the fracture process zone (FPZ) of brittle materials, with a constitutive relationship corresponding to the force–displacement behavior in the non-elastic deformation zone, providing clear physical significance. Coral reef limestone (CRL), a heterogeneous sedimentary rock, has complex pore structure that significantly affects its fracture behavior. Given this, dynamic impact tests were conducted on CRL notched semi-circular bending (CRL-NSCB) specimens using a modified Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar. The study comparatively analyzed the differences in calculations of dynamic fracture toughness using different methods, such as the empirical formula recommended by the International Society for Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering, the J-integral method, and method of linear elastic fracture mechanics. Additionally, a high-speed camera was adopted to capture the dynamic fracture process of the specimens, and the FPZ length of CRL was accurately measured based on the digital image correlation method. A numerical model of the CRL-NSCB specimen was also established, and a numerical case was conducted by hybrid finite-discrete element method to explore the effect of pore structure on the fracture process. The results indicate that the J-integral method accounts for energy release in the FPZ, allowing for a more accurate consideration of the heterogeneity effects. Loading rate primarily influences the crack propagation mode. At low loading rates, large pores near the expected crack path induce deviation from the expected crack path. Additionally, FPZ parameters exhibit a clear rate effect. These research conclusions provide new insights into the fracture process of porous CRL.
[127] 郭小仟,黄湘,吴河生 ,等.弹性体裂纹扩展表征方法的研究进展[J].高分子材料科学与工程,2025,41 (7):172-180,Sichuan University
摘要：如何预测和表征弹性体裂纹扩展是弹性体领域的重要问题。文中对弹性体裂纹扩展表征方法和抗裂纹能力提升策略进行了总结,对各裂纹扩展表征方法的适用材料进行了归纳,并探讨了断裂基本功的影响因素,对预制裂纹缺口的选择提供了方案。结合刚性材料的表征方法,进一步对弹性体裂纹研究提出展望,以期为后续弹性体研究提供借鉴。
[128] Kai Wang,Bingqian Sun,Yonghui Huang ,等.The impact of pre-existing edge cracks on the dynamic fracture of T-shaped beam-column specimens under different boundary conditions[J].Materials Today Communications,2025,47 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：T-shaped beam-columns are widely used in civil engineering and are often subjected to dynamic loads and work with joints during service. Studying their fracture behavior under dynamic loads is of significant theoretical and practical importance. This study uses a digital laser dynamic caustics experimental system to investigate T-shaped beam-column specimens with different constraint conditions and crack positions. Through impact hammer testing, the crack propagation patterns, speeds, and stress intensity factors at the crack tip are examined. The results show that under the impact load at the beam end, the unique shape of the T-shaped beam causes stress to concentrate at the beam-column junction. Specimens with prefabricated cracks at the beam end experience more stress concentration points, resulting in poorer overall stability and more severe damage after the impact. The average crack propagation speed at the beam end is always faster than that at the column end. This is because, after crack initiation at the column end, the pressure generated by the specimen's weight hinders the conversion of potential energy into kinetic energy, leading to greater energy loss. Under constrained conditions, the constraint increases the beam's bending stiffness and reduces the bending moment stress transmitted to the column end. Therefore, the constraint has a more significant inhibitory effect on crack propagation at the column end compared to the beam end. Under beam-end constraint, the column-end crack transitions from Mode I failure to Mode I-II mixed-mode failure. As mixed-mode cracks require more energy to propagate, the stress intensity factor increases, and the propagation speed slows down.
[129] 黄昱翔,肖南,黄阜 ,等.基于近场动力学理论的脆性材料裂纹扩展模拟[J].科学技术与工程,2026,26 (1):30-40,Beijing Kexue Jishu yu Gongcheng Zazhishe
摘要：为深入探究材料失效和损伤演化规律,通过非局部性近场动力学理论数值模拟方法系统研究了不同载荷条件下脆性材料的裂纹萌生、扩展、相互作用机理。结果表明:基于积分-微分方程的键型本构模型能够准确预测复杂断裂现象,二维含圆孔拉伸试验和含偏置裂纹三点弯曲试验的数值模拟验证了其在单裂纹扩展中的精确性与有效性;不同初始倾角(30°、60°、90°)下的预制双裂纹系统表现出角度依赖性的力学耦合机制,随着倾角减小,扩展模式由各自独立发展转变为相互影响,呈现显著的不对称特征;小角度构型下的双裂纹表现出明显的协同破坏特征,最终形成贯通的破裂面。可见近场动力学数值模拟方法不仅能准确预测单裂纹扩展行为,还能有效模拟多裂纹系统中的损伤演化和相互作用机制,为脆性材料中复杂裂纹行为分析和多裂纹结构安全评估提供了新的理论依据。
[130] 徐向阳,时慧一,樊林放 .考虑喷丸残余应力的齿根裂纹扩展计算方法[J].中南大学学报（自然科学版）,2025,56 (3):932-940,Central South University
摘要：为了解决喷丸冲击残余应力影响下齿根裂纹扩展计算方法缺乏的问题,首先,基于线弹性断裂力学理论,耦合残余应力与裂纹闭合效应,采用修正的Paris法构建裂纹扩展模型,分析在不同喷丸条件下残余应力场对裂纹扩展行为的具体影响;其次,联合预置裂纹的单齿裂纹扩展模型和有限元-离散元(FEM-DEM)喷丸模型,提出齿根残余应力裂纹扩展计算方法,获得不同喷丸参数下的残余应力场;最后,探究喷丸强化残余应力与齿根弯曲应力耦合复合应力场对齿根裂纹扩展行为的影响。研究结果表明:在喷丸强化作用下,残余压应力影响区域内裂纹尖端的应力强度因子显著降低,导致裂纹闭合力增大,裂纹闭合效应增强,裂纹扩展门槛提高,从而有效抑制了裂纹扩展;在次表面上,喷丸残余应力对裂纹的抑制作用最明显,并随裂纹深度增加而减弱。
[131] Zhongwen Yue,Xu Wang,Xingyuan Zhou ,等.Study on the dynamic fracture law of layered materials under the explosive load of slotted charge[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,138 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Directional fracture blasting with slotted charge is one of the main rock breaking methods for excavating layered rock mass tunnels. This article uses dynamic photoelastic method combined with high-speed photography technology to visualize the process of explosive stress waves and explosive cracks passing through vertical layers of different strengths caused by the explosion of slotted charge. The dynamic fracture law of layered materials with different strength layers under slotted charge explosion loads was studied. The results indicate that the greater the strength of the bedding plane, the more significant the waveform changes of the explosive stress wave when transmitted through the bedding plane. When the strength of the bedding is relatively high, the crack velocity is less affected by the bedding. When the strength of the bedding is weak and there is a significant difference from the strength of the specimen material, the velocity of the crack after passing through the bedding will undergo severe oscillations. Before the main crack reaches the bedding plane and after passing through it, the fracture mode of the crack is mainly mode-I. During the process of the crack passing through the bedding plane, the dynamic crack transforms from the mode-I crack to the mixed mode crack. Under the premise of a certain crack velocity, bedding angle, and physical and mechanical parameters of the specimen, the propagation trajectory of the crack passing through the bedding is related to the difference in bedding strength and specimen strength.
[132] Hong, Zi-jie,Si, Kai,Li, Zhen-hua ,等.Study on the strength characteristics of sandstone subjected to coupled static and dynamic loads from the perspective of microscopic crack propagation[J].Geomechanics and Geophysics for Geo-Energy and Geo-Resources,2025,11 (1):1-23,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：A series of engineering dynamic disasters, such as rock bursts and roof caving, are closely related to the damage and strength characteristics of rock under dynamic loading. Research on this topic is helpful for accurately understanding the mechanism of rock dynamic disasters, making predictions in advance and taking appropriate measures to reduce losses. To further study the dynamic failure characteristics of rock, a theoretical model of dynamic wing crack propagation in sandstone under the condition of coupled static and dynamic loads was proposed. The effects of the strain rate, prestatic stress and confining pressure on the damage process and strength of sandstone were quantitatively revealed by a theoretical model. The proposed dynamic wing crack propagation model actually represents the tensile damage of rock and is suitable for the macroscopic tensile fracture of rock under the action of a dynamic load. Compared with the SHPB experimental results, the theoretical model can effectively predict the coupled static and dynamic strengths of sandstone and explain the damage and fracture process. In addition, the differences between the theoretical model and the experimental results were analysed in detail. The results of this study can provide a theoretical reference for further understanding the occurrence mechanism of rock mass dynamic disasters and provide a theoretical model basis for future numerical simulation research.
[133] Chao Wang,Tao Zhu,Shoune Xiao ,等.A two-stage surface fatigue crack propagation model of welded joint based on generalized structural stress[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,317 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This work proposes a fracture mechanics model for fatigue crack propagation on the surface of welded structures using generalized structural stress. The model considers the impact of the weld profile on structural stress parameters. The whole process of crack propagation on the surface of welded joints is divided into two phases: shallow surface (<em>a/t</em> ≤ 0.2) and long crack (<em>a/t</em> &gt; 0.2). The geometric modification coefficient <em>F</em> of fracture mechanics for different geometrical features of welded structures in tensile and bending load modes were calculated by multiple regression. The total thickness amplification factor <em>M</em><sub>kn</sub> is used to quantify the influence of the notch effect on the stress intensity factor (SIF) of shallow surface cracks. A unified fracture mechanics model explains the two stages of solving the dynamic SIF and the remaining life for surface cracks in welded joints. The results show that the model enhances the calculation accuracy of the SIF for welded joints, which is valuable for assessing the structural integrity and safety of welded joints.
[134] Houxiang Wang,Wencai Sun,Xingru Yang ,等.Reliability prediction of crack propagation life for turbine blades using an adaptive coupled High-Fidelity and surrogate model[J].Engineering Failure Analysis,2026,185 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To address the high computational cost and the difficulty of simultaneously considering multi-source uncertainties in the remaining useful life (RUL) prediction for steam turbine blades under complex operating conditions, an efficient reliability-based analysis framework is proposed. This framework initially generates samples via high-fidelity thermo-mechanical coupled finite element analysis. Subsequently, it employs a methodology that integrates a surrogate model for static physical quantities with dynamic crack integration. A Kriging surrogate is utilized to rapidly compute the stress intensity factor (SIF) at the crack tip, which is embedded within an adaptive Monte Carlo simulation to drive crack evolution through fracture mechanics integration. Leveraging the differentiability of the Kriging model, an adaptive load spectrum updating strategy is constructed using the SIF gradient as its criterion. A case study on a GH4169 high-pressure blade indicates that creep and fatigue contribute approximately 54.0 % and 46.0 % to crack propagation, respectively. Moreover, the computational time is reduced by over 70 % while maintaining a prediction error of less than 1 %. Probabilistic analysis yielded the life distribution and reliability curves, and sensitivity analysis identified the creep propagation parameter as the most critical factor. This framework, integrating both high fidelity and high efficiency, provides crucial support for risk-based inspection and operational optimization.
[135] Xiaozhao Li,Qiulin Luo,Chengzhi Qi .Dynamic unsaturated effect of microcrack extension on brittle rock fracture under impact compression[J].International Journal of Rock Mechanics and Mining Sciences,2025,195 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Deep underground engineering rocks are typically unsaturated, and their dynamic mechanical properties exhibit significant variations with water saturation. Microcrack propagation within rock matrices critically influences dynamic compressive behavior. However, existing research on the micro-macro fracture mechanics relationship of brittle rocks under dynamic compression remains insufficiently explored, particularly for varying water saturation conditions. This study proposes a novel theoretical framework to quantify the unsaturated effects on the dynamic micro-macro fracture mechanical properties of brittle rocks. The model integrates multiple key mechanisms: 1) the wing microcrack dynamics, 2) the <em>K</em><sub>ICQ</sub> - <em>K</em><sub>ICD</sub> transition relationship between quasi-static and dynamic fracture toughness, 3) the crack extension rate (<em>v</em><sub><em>l</em></sub>) dependency on opening rate (<em>v</em><sub>h</sub>), 4) the strain rate (<em>ε</em><sub>1</sub>') sensitivity of crack extension rate, 5) the Stefan force (<em>F</em><sub>S</sub>) governed by crack opening rate, and 6) the saturation-dependent mechanical parameters (initial intercrack friction coefficient <em>μ</em>, initial damage <em>D</em><sub>0</sub>, quasi-static fracture toughness <em>K</em><sub>ICQ</sub>, elastic modulus <em>E</em>, and density <em>ρ</em>). A dynamic stress-strain constitutive model for unsaturated brittle rocks, triggered by microcrack growth, is formulated and experimentally validated through laboratory tests, demonstrating robust predictive accuracy. The results reveal that free water induces competing strengthening/weakening mechanisms under dynamic loading, leading to distinct trends in dynamic fracture toughness, compressive strength, and crack initiation stress as functions of saturation at varying strain rates. Furthermore, systematic investigations into confining pressure effects demonstrate its critical role in modulating the relationships between wat
[136] .聚能结构优化与岩石裂纹扩展特征[J].工程爆破,2026,32 (2):127-136
摘要：露天矿山生产过程中,主要存在振动持续时间长、振动次数频繁等问题,预裂爆破技术就是面临爆破稳定性问题提出的爆破技术。如何在节约成本的前提下采用预裂爆破技术达到理想的爆破效果成为亟待解决的问题。基于此通过理论分析、数值模拟和现场试验相结合的方法,利用有限元软件ANSYS/LS-DYNA对聚能管结构参数优化改进,通过设计不同聚能穴角度、不同聚能穴长度设立多组对照模型,分析了聚能管装药结构爆炸作用下岩体有效应力分布和动力响应变化规律,在聚能穴长度为5.0 mm、角度为50°的条件下,聚能管对岩石的定向断裂效果最为理想。开展现场试验,应用聚能管装置完成聚能预裂爆破,铲装剥离后聚能切割装置预裂爆破的平整度明显优于传统预裂爆破。依据聚能爆破后半孔痕率、裂缝贯通效果、爆破峰值振速以及经济效益等因素评估聚能爆破效果,可为后续工程应用提供参考。
[137] Jin, Xiao,Rao, Pingping,Lu, Yuan ,等.Underwater High-Voltage Electric Pulse-Assisted Hydraulic Fracturing: Multiphysics Modeling Framework and 3D Dynamic Crack Propagation Analysis[J].Energy Technology,2025,13 (12),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：This study investigates rock fracturing mechanisms and 3D crack propagation dynamics in underwater high-voltage electric pulse-assisted hydraulic fracturing. The study develops a multiphysics model by integrating circuit theory, plasma dynamics, and fluid-solid coupling principles. This model quantifies the interplay between plasma channel evolution, electrohydraulic shock wave (EHS) generation, and mechanical responses of rock. The model combines Kirchhoff's circuit equations with time-varying plasma impedance and energy conservation laws to resolve spatiotemporal distributions of plasma pressure and shock wave energy conversion. A 3D fracture mechanics framework reveals critical insights: Increased principal stress difference (1-4 MPa) reduces crack width by 15.7% and fracture area by 18.9%, while higher injection rates (0.25-0.75 m(3) s(-1)) expand fracture zones;and simulations involving multiple cracks demonstrate that enhanced stress shadowing elevates the initiation pressures of two cracks by 13.48%. Experimental validation confirms model reliability (<5% error), demonstrating EHS's capacity to enhance fracture connectivity and energy transfer efficiency. These findings establish a theoretical foundation for optimizing EHS-hydraulic fracturing in deep low-permeability coal seams, addressing challenges of conventional techniques through improved controllability and reduced environmental impact.
[138] Srinivasagan M.,Khirupa Sagar R.,Mahesh A. ,等.Domain switching effects on crack propagation in ferroelectrics through SBFEM[J].International Journal of Mechanical Sciences,2025,286 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Electromechanically coupled ferroelectric materials exhibit complex nonlinear behaviour under higher magnitudes of mechanical and electrical loading owing to their microscopic domain switching phenomenon. The presence of pre-cracks in the polycrystalline ferroelectrics intensifies the localized electric fields and mechanical stresses. In this paper, a micromechanical model combined with the scaled boundary finite element method (SBFEM) explores domain switching near the crack tip under cyclic electric fields and mechanical stresses. The solution for stress at the singularity near the crack tip is realized through SBFEM. A naturally evolving Voronoi polygonal tessellation is employed to mimic the microstructure of a typical polycrystalline ferroelectric material where each ferroelectric grain is represented by a Voronoi polygon. The dynamic crack propagation across grains under electrical or combined mechanical loading is predicted by introducing a novel re-meshing technique. The fracture parameters evaluated through the proposed method are validated by their close correspondence with the experimental compact tension test and three-point bend test results from the literature.
[139] Huidong Cao,Jianfeng Zhao,Ali Arab ,等.Effect of strain rate on crack propagation and fracture toughness of the concrete at mode I and mixed mode I/II[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,140 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Although the fracture toughness of concrete materials has been widely studied at different loading rates, the concrete crack propagation and the failure process, which are of great significance to understand the failure mechanism concrete, have been rarely studied. This study conducts the fracture tests at different loading-rate on Semi-circular bending (SCB) specimens with different pre-notched angles by universal testing machine and Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar (SHPB). Digital Image Correlation (DIC) technology is applied to analyze the fracture process of concrete SCB specimens in detail. A new method has been proposed to determine the coordinated time between the SHPB signal and the history of DIC, thereby determining the crack initiation and termination of concrete. The failure on the concrete surface is mainly interfacial transition zone (ITZ) failure, while inside the concrete, the combined failure of aggregates, mortar, and ITZ constitutes the overall fracture at low loading rate. The results show that the peak load of the specimen and its variability increase with loading rate and pre-notched angle, with variability being more sensitive to pre-notched angle. Additionally, as the loading rate increases, the crack propagation speed also increases. The excessively high loading rates should not be used to achieve the expected fracture mode (mode I and mixed mode I/II), and it will overestimate the real value of the fracture toughness. For specimens with <em>β</em> = 0° and 45°, <span class="math"><math><mover accent="true" is="true"><mi is="true">K</mi><mo is="true">̇</mo></mover></math></span> <sub>eff</sub> should not exceed 212.44 <span class="math"><math><mrow is="true"><mi is="true" mathvariant="italic">GPa</mi><mo is="true">∙</mo><msup is="true"><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">m</mi></mrow><mrow is="true"><mn is="true">1</mn><mo is="true" stretchy="false">/</mo><mn is="true">2</mn></mrow></msup><mo is="true" stretchy="false">/</mo><mi is="true">s</mi></mrow
[140] Zhe Ji,Hong Su,Hongwei Li ,等.Study on the influence of arched pre-splitting crack on cracks propagation under explosion load[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,136 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Pre-splitting blasting is extensively utilized in engineering tasks such as tunneling and underground chamber excavation. This study employs Digital Image Correlation (DIC) techniques and Dynamic Caustics Systems to examine the influence of pre-splitting crack, induced by pre-splitting blasting, on the dynamic fracture properties of blasting cracks into the remaining rock mass. The research findings reveal the critical role of pre-splitting crack in increasing damage to the blasted rock mass, impeding the propagation of blasting cracks towards the remaining rock mass, and promoting the initiation and propagation of primary cracks in remaining rock mass, particularly enhancing the cracks at the arch crown and the bottom of the arch abutment. The presence of pre-splitting crack significantly amplifies the strain field around the primary cracks, at the crack tips of these fractures, and near the pre-splitting crack, prolonging the duration of strain intensification. Moreover, pre-splitting crack increases the stress intensity factor at the tips of primary cracks, enabling more efficient energy accumulation before crack initiation. Consequently, the enhanced stress intensity factor at the tips of wing cracks following initiation fosters more rapid energy accumulation during crack propagation, thereby increasing the peak propagation velocity of the wing cracks. The outcomes of this study provide substantial theoretical and experimental support for the safe and efficient excavation of tunnels and galleries.
[141] Yixiao Sun,Hao Wang,Yang Du ,等.Effects of hydrogen ingress on dynamic fracture behavior of cylindrical shell subjected to internal detonation loading[J].International Journal of Hydrogen Energy,2026,235 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Hydrogen storage and transportation equipment faces the dual threats of hydrogen embrittlement and explosive loading during service. Unlike most studies using material specimens, this study conducted experiments on typical structural components to reveal hydrogen ingress effects on the dynamic failure behavior. Pre-flawed cylindrical shells were electrochemically hydrogen-charged for 0 h, 24 h, and 72 h, corresponding to hydrogen concentrations of 0 ppm, 3.46 ppm, and 8.70 ppm, respectively. Subsequently, cylindrical shells were applied to internal hydrogen-oxygen detonation using the self-developed experimental platform. Hydrogen ingress reduced crack propagation resistance, allowed more cracks to propagate simultaneously, therefore promoting the occurrence of crack branching. Moreover, hydrogen ingress increased the total crack length and the maximum crack speed. Specifically, for each 1 ppm increase in hydrogen concentration, the total crack propagation length increased by approximately 17 mm, while the maximum speeds of forward and backward cracks correspondingly increased by 13.7 m/s and 11.5 m/s.
[142] Gong, Shuang,Zhang, Hansong,Sun, Shiyi ,等.Effects of irregular holes defect on the entire dynamic progressive fracture process of SCT limestone in split Hopkinson pressure bar tests: laboratory experiments and FEM modeling[J].Geomechanics and Geophysics for Geo-Energy and Geo-Resources,2025,12 (1):2-2,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：Investigating the impact of irregular hole defects on the dynamic mechanical properties and fracture behavior of natural rocks is crucial for tunnel construction support, rock engineering stability evaluation, and rock burst prevention. In this study, we used a split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) system and LS-DYNA numerical simulation to examine the dynamic fracture behavior of limestone specimens featuring single cleavage triangle (SCT) and different hole defects, subjected to impact load. We further analyzed the dynamic compressive strength, deformation modulus, failure mode, and crack expansion behavior of the SCT limestone specimens with double-hole defects under impact load. We used an image processing method for this analysis, supplementing it by employing the digital image correlation (DIC) method. This method enabled us to observe the evolution characteristics of the tensile strain field at the crack tip and the shear strain field surrounding the defect. Our findings revealed that specimens with asymmetric hole spacing were prone to premature compression deformation failure due to uneven force distribution. Specimens with asymmetrically distributed, wide-spaced hole defects resulted in fewer final cracks, which helped minimize rock chip flaking on the rock surface. Notably, the lower part hole defects significantly influenced the crack's propagation path, altering the initial tensile crack extension direction. There was strong agreement between the experimental and numerical simulation results, which highlighted the hole defects'a role in causing a non-uniform stress field distribution. This non-uniformity affected the strain field around the crack propagation direction, resulting in irregular sample deformation. Beyond the main prefabricated cracks and the cracks originating on the hole surface, we also identified secondary shear and tensile failure zones. These insights provide a theoretical reference for understanding the initiation and propagation mecha
[143] 姜昊,杨荣,邹鹏 ,等.基于标准试样的裂纹扩展分析方法对比研究[J].热加工工艺,2026,55 (2):214-219
摘要：裂纹扩展分析是损伤容限分析的重要内容,对飞机结构安全有重要的意义。研究了Paris、Forman、Walker和NASGRO等4种不同裂纹扩展分析方法,并给出了适用性说明。通过研究不同裂纹扩展速率模型,分别采用文献数据和材料试验拟合数据,利用快速积分法进行理论裂纹扩展分析,并与标准试样裂纹扩展试验结果进行对比。结果表明:Paris、Forman、Walker模型分析结果不保守,Walker为最小偏离模型,NASGRO裂纹扩展分析模型有一定的保守性。该结论对裂纹扩展分析方法的选用、材料数据的拟合具有指导意义。
[144] Yiqing Zhao,Wenjing Qin,Jinbo Liu ,等.Progressive failure of coal–rock under triaxial disturbance: From experimental and crack propagation modeling perspectives[J].Geomechanics for Energy and the Environment,2025,44 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：During deep mining, coal–rock masses are prone to dynamic stress redistribution and concentration under triaxial unloading disturbances, leading to progressive crack evolution and eventual instability. To investigate the underlying failure mechanism, triaxial unloading disturbance tests were carried out. Acoustic emission (AE) monitoring was used to track key indicators, including the RA/AF ratio, b-value, and dominant frequency. In addition, multifractal spectrum analysis was introduced to systematically characterize the crack evolution process of coal–rock under different unloading rates of confining pressure. The study divides the failure process into four stages and proposes an axial crack propagation model based on fracture mechanics to describe crack evolution under disturbed unloading conditions. The results indicate that, with increasing unloading rates, coal–rock failure is dominated by shear failure, accompanied by a reduction in the number of macroscopic cracks. The acoustic emission (AE) signals exhibit stronger multifractal characteristics and localized intensity heterogeneity, reflecting increased internal structural complexity and disorder. The developed crack propagation model provides theoretical support for the study of fracture evolution in geological materials under unconventional loading conditions and offers guidance for crack prediction and failure assessment in complex stress environments.
[145] Yibo Zhang,Hetong Liu,Mingda Han ,等.Mechanisms and models of oxygen-assisted fatigue crack propagation at high temperature: A review[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,136 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In high-temperature environments, oxygen may accelerates the initiation and propagation of fatigue cracks. It significantly affects the performance of structures and restricts their service life. Therefore, it is necessary to study the mechanisms by which oxygen diffusion and oxidation affect fatigue crack propagation at high temperatures. To date, although various mechanisms and models for the influence of oxygen on crack propagation have been proposed, a comprehensive review of the subject is still not available. This paper aims to provide an overview of the topic to help readers understand the field. At first, the paper discusses the influencing factors and mechanisms of oxygen-accelerated crack propagation. Secondly, the relevant models are discussed, including mechanism model, the oxygen-assisted fracture model, the crack growth rate model, and the life prediction model. Thirdly, the paper suggests the limitations and the improvement direction of the models.
[146] Luo, Haohao,Bian, Yadong,Wang, Zhiliu ,等.Experimental and numerical study on dynamic crack propagation of shaped charge at different angles[J].Scientific Reports,2025,15 (1):1-13,NATURE PORTFOLIO
摘要：To study the crack propagation characteristics of the V-shaped energy- accumulating charge at different angles, a new numerical laser caustics test system was used to observe the fracture process of the V-shaped energy-concentrating charge;the mechanical distribution mechanism around the blast hole of the energy-accumulating charge was analyzed, and fractal theory was used to evaluate the damage degree of the energy-accumulating charge. A series of caustics test results show that the main crack has a longer expansion length in the energy-concentrating direction, and the crack expansion length is shorter in the nonenergy-concentrating direction. The fractal damage results of the energy gathering perforating charge indicate that as the angle of the charge increases, the damage caused by energy gathering blasting gradually increases, the complexity of crack propagation increases, and the main crack follows the direction of energy accumulation. The directivity becomes increasingly less obvious. When the energy gathering angle is 120 degrees, the main crack propagation process is similar to that of the circular charge (control group). The shaped charge can be used for directional fracture control blasting, which helps to control the direction and number of cracks and improve the blasting effect.
[147] 高立,邓宗才 .CFRP修复钢Ⅰ/Ⅱ混合型裂纹扩展研究进展及展望[J].工程力学,2026,43 (1):11-27
摘要：钢结构在循环荷载作用下往往会发生疲劳破坏。由于结构的复杂性和荷载形式的复合性,往往会使钢结构产生Ⅰ/Ⅱ混合型裂纹,且疲劳裂纹修复一直是钢结构疲劳研究的热点。碳纤维增强聚合物复合材料(Carbon fiber reinforced polymer,CFRP)在修复钢结构中有诸多优势和良好的应用前景,目前的研究主要集中于Ⅰ型裂纹的修复,但对于Ⅰ/Ⅱ混合型裂纹扩展及其修复的研究比较少。为此,从疲劳裂纹扩展、裂纹扩展速率和等效应力强度因子的计算方法方面报道了混合模态下钢材的裂纹扩展研究现状;重点阐述了CFRP修复混合型裂纹扩展现状,分析了CFRP基础材性、CFRP-钢界面粘结性能和不同裂纹角度等因素对混合裂纹修复的性能影响;基于目前的研究现状对CFRP修复钢结构在疲劳荷载作用下混合型裂纹扩展的应用前景和研究重点进行了展望。
[148] Rudshaug, Jonas,Borvik, Tore,Hopperstad, Odd Sture .Modeling brittle crack propagation for varying critical load levels: a dynamic phase-field approach[J].International Journal of Fracture,2024,245 (1-2):57-73,SPRINGER
摘要：Brittle materials are known for their violent and unpredictable cracking behavior. A behavior which is dictated by a combination of microscopical material defects and the competition between the potential energy of the system and the surface energy of the material. In this study, we present the implementation of a dynamic fracture phase-field model with a new crack driving force into a commercial finite element (FE) solver and examine its behavior using three different tension-compression splits. After validating the implementation, we use the model to investigate its predictive capacity on quasi-statically loaded L-shaped soda-lime glass specimens with varying critical load levels. The dynamic fracture phase-field model predicted similar crack propagation to what was found in the literature for quasi-static and dynamic validation cases. By varying the critical load level for the L-shaped soda-lime glass specimens using the new crack driving force, the model predicted a positive correlation between the initial crack propagation speed and the critical load level, similar to what was seen in the experiments. However, the predicted crack propagation speed decreased quicker than the experimental crack propagation speed. The tension-compression splits had an impact on the predicted crack propagation paths. Overall, the proposed crack driving force used in the dynamic fracture phase-field model seems to capture the relation between critical load and initial crack propagation speed and thus enables crack predictions for specimens of varying strength.
[149] Welington Hilário Vieira,Daniel Dias-da-Costa,Rodrigo Ribeiro Paccola .High aspect ratio interface elements for mesoscale modelling of concrete under dynamic fracture propagation[J].Finite Elements in Analysis and Design,2025,249 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Concrete can show an increased material strength under dynamic loading conditions, which is related to the heterogeneity at the mesoscale, as well as the rate of loading. The ability to capture this phenomenon and predict behaviour under dynamic fracture propagation is of interest to different applications. High aspect ratio interface elements are developed here for mesoscale modelling of concrete under dynamic loading while attending to the dynamic strength enhancement. The high aspect ratio interface elements can be implemented in standard finite element codes, as they are based on the same integration rules and shape functions as bulk elements. A rate-dependent constitutive model based on two damage variables is proposed to simultaneously handle fracture propagation in modes I and II, including the contribution of friction. A strategy is also proposed to avoid material iterations due to the coupled modes. The framework is validated using several examples, including mixed mode tests with different loading rates. In general, both load versus displacement curves and crack patterns are found to be close to the experimental results. The importance of the sample heterogeneity and the rate-dependent constitutive model could be observed as critical components to predict the results of dynamic experiments.
[150] Anshuman Rajput,Amit Subhash Shedbale,Debashis Khan .An Implicit/Explicit dynamic context for brittle fracture using localized gradient damage model[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,313 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this work, an implicit/explicit framework for dynamic brittle fracture using localizing gradient damage model (LGDM) with monolithic and staggered solution schemes is presented. A predictive capability of the present approach is witnessed through accurate predictions of damage phenomena investigating various problems. First, a classical crack branching example is considered where the LGDM is shown to resolve the mesh sensitivity issue along with sharp crack profiles. Additionally, the robustness of different solutions schemes is demonstrated through mesh sensitivity analysis where the staggered explicit scheme is found to be computationally efficient. Next, the performance of the proposed model is investigated through the simulation of compact tension tests under different loading rates, to demonstrate the evolution from mode-I to mixed mode crack branching fracture. These tension tests demonstrate the capability of the model in capturing different failure patterns at different loading rates, which agree with the experimental data well. Finally, we considered a specimen with two dynamically propagating cracks located on opposite edges. These numerical simulations demonstrate the model’s capability in handling multiple crack propagation and effectively capturing the intricate mechanisms of damage growth.
[151] Liu, Jian,Xue, Yonglin,Zhang, Hualei ,等.Experimental study on the influence of interface angle on dynamic fracture and energy dissipation of layered rock[J].振动与冲击,2025,44 (21):12-24,Chinese Vibration Engineering Society
摘要：Here, to investigate dynamic fracture behavior of layered composite rock under different interface angles, dynamic impact tests were condueted for straight-grooved semi-circular disc composite rock speeimens using a 50.0 mm diameter split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) device within interface angle gradients of 15°, 30°, 45°, 60°, 75° and 90°. By using a high-speed camera device to record failure modes of speeimens and analyzing crack propagation trend using digital image correlation technology, dynamic fracture behavior and energy dissipation law of speeimens under different interface angles and impact load conditions were studied. The results showed that average crack opening velocities of speeimens under impact load exhibit a trend of decreasing firstly and then increasing with increase in interface angle;aecording to crack morphologies and initiation positions, 4 types of cracks are obtained;with decrease in interface angle, crack types of speeimens fracture increase, and speeimens change from a single Splitting tensile failure mode I T + IVT type to a complex tensile-shear composite failure mode ns + IEs + lVT type;increase in interface angle can cause increase in effective reflection area of stress wave at coal-rock interface, ineident wave can generate larger reflection wave and reflection energy after passing through interface, while corresponding transmitted waves and transmitted energy can continue to decrease;deflection effect of crack propagation along interface can decrease with increase in interface angle, and more cracks can propagate along rock matrix, thus the ratio value of dissipated energy of speeimen fracture can gradually increase. © 2025 Chinese Vibration Engineering Society. All rights reserved.
[152] 马帅,程建生,段金辉 ,等.单双耳接头剩余疲劳寿命预测及裂纹扩展研究[J].哈尔滨工程大学学报,2025,46 (5):967-976,Editorial Board of Journal of Harbin Engineering
摘要：为解决单双耳接头疲劳损伤导致装备整体性能严重下滑的问题,本文基于断裂力学理论建立了复合型裂纹扩展计算模型,通过试验方法和有限元方法,从剩余疲劳寿命和断口形态的角度分析了不同类型初始裂纹在循环载荷下的疲劳性能。研究表明:剩余疲劳寿命与裂纹出现的位置、类型、大小紧密相关,可为装备安全使用提供理论依据。
[153] Kang, Yufeng,Zheng, Yanfeng,Su, Haijian ,等.Mesoscale Dynamic Fracture Analysis Approach of Concrete Structures Combining Finite Particle Method and Rate-Dependent Cohesive Zone Model[J].International Journal of Structural Stability and Dynamics,2026,26 (2),WORLD SCIENTIFIC PUBL CO PTE LTD
摘要：The fracture behavior of concrete structures under dynamic loading exhibits rate-dependent (RD) characteristics. To study the dynamic fracture (DF) mechanisms of two-dimensional (2D) concrete structures, this study proposes a DF analysis method with a novel integration of the finite particle method (FPM) and a RD cohesive zone model (CZM), which enables effective analysis of mesoscale DF in concrete. Specifically, a traction-separation law is presented, wherein only the traction strength is RD. The changes in traction with the loading rate for CZM are derived. Subsequently, the equations of motion of particles are detailed, and the internal forces of the cohesive element (CE) are developed to characterize the RD CZM. Afterward, a CE solver is implemented within the explicit FPM analysis framework. Then, a benchmark study on a single element is conducted to verify the traction-separation law of CZM. A standard DF benchmark is examined to validate the effectiveness of the proposed method. It is found that the offered approach effectively captures the path of crack propagation and the delaying characteristics of microcrack development. Applying the mesoscale fracture model of concrete structures, the intricate DF behavior of concrete is analyzed, providing enhanced understanding of crack expansion and load-bearing capacity.
[154] Tingting Liu,Luyang Ding,Hui Shen ,等.Influence of crack initiation competition and interaction of cross flaw on the dynamic fracture behavior of granite under biaxial compression[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,136 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Flawed rock mass may exhibit complex fracture behavior when subjected to dynamic loads such as blasting or earthquakes. Therefore, understanding the fracture mechanism of rock mass with non-persistent cross flaws under in-situ stress is vital for ensuring safe construction and prolonged operation of deep geotechnical engineering. In this study, dynamic tests under biaxial static loading were conducted with consideration of the effect of the flaw persistency ratio. The fracture toughness was calculated from the digital image correlation (DIC) results to analyze the intrinsic fracture mechanism, failure mode, and microscopic damage morphology. The findings reveal the failure mode of the fractured rock mass has a predictable evolution process according to the spatial geometric characteristics of the cross flaws. At the moment of crack initiation, the stress intensity factor (SIF) value of mode-Ⅰ crack at the main flaw tip is considerably greater than that of the secondary flaw tip. In the crack propagation stage, the stress fields of the second flaw tips of the specimen with different persistency ratios exhibit disparate responses to the fracture behavior of the main flaw tip. Microcracks tend to aggregate at the ends of typical shear failure zones under tensile-shear stress. The obtained results can provide a useful reference for the safe construction of underground engineering.
[155] Ammendolea, Domenico,Fabbrocino, Francesco,Greco, Fabrizio ,等.Numerical simulation of dynamic crack propagation in brittle materials using a moving mesh technique[M].Procedia Structural Integrity,2026,79 :467-474,Elsevier B.V.
摘要：This work presents a robust and efficient numerical approach for simulating dynamic crack propagation processes in brittle materials. The proposed approach couples a standard Finite Element (FE) framework with a Moving Mesh (MM) technique based on the Arbitrary Lagrangian-Eulerian (ALE) formulation. The MM technique allows the computational mesh to dynamically adapt to the evolving geometry caused by growing cracks, specifically by repositioning mesh nodes around the crack tip. In this context, the ALE formulation guarantees mesh regularity by limiting unwarranted element distortion and minimizing the need for frequent global remeshing. Besides, fracture-mechanics-based criteria govern crack initiation, propagation, and direction. The accuracy and reliability of the proposed model have been thoroughly assessed through various benchmark cases, with results consistently validated against experimental and numerical data from the literature. Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
[156] Henry, Q.,Kopp, J. -b.,Le Barbenchon, L. ,等.In situ characterisation of dynamic fracture in Al2O3 using ultra-fast X-ray phase contrast radioscopy: effects of porosity and crack speed[J].International Journal of Fracture,2025,249 (1),SPRINGER
摘要：The dynamic fracture properties of porous ceramics were studied using single bunch synchrotron X-ray phase contrast imaging. The modified brazilian geometry was used to initiate and propagate a pure mode I crack. The specimen was compressed using the Split Hopkinson bars at strain rates of the order of 10(2) s(-1). Main cracks were isolated for four different grades of Al2O3, one dense alumina, and three porous grades with 20 % to 60 % porosity. The maximum measured crack velocities for three grades is of the order of 0.6cR and 0.4cR for the most porous. The fracture energy was estimated using a FE numerical simulation to quantify the influence of inertial effects induced by crack propagation. The results show that these inertial effects are far from negligible (up to 80 % of the stored energy) and that the dynamic correction factors known from the literature tend to overestimate the fracture energy. The values obtained vary from 22 J/m(2) for the densest to 5 J/m(2) for the most porous.
[157] Zhang, Xin'ao,Guo, Yintong,Bi, Zhenhui ,等.Dynamic Analysis of Hydraulic Fracture Propagation in Indoor Layered Rocks Based on OFDR Technology[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2025,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：The dynamic analysis of hydraulic fracture propagation is crucial for optimizing hydraulic fracture designs. This study proposes a strain field decoupling algorithm based on the shear strain transfer mechanism, overcoming the challenges in crack opening displacement (COD) calculation under the interference of multiple hydraulic fractures. Additionally, leveraging the advantages of distributed fiber optic sensing technology, a method for monitoring the initiation and propagation of fractures in indoor multi-layered rock masses under true triaxial compression has been established. By analyzing the strain evolution curve, it was verified that the validity of the crack induced strain expression fitted to the strain distribution. The results demonstrate that the proposed method can promptly identify fracture points along the bedding planes. By calculations, the positions and COD of these fracture points at different time can be accurately determined. The predicted fracture morphologies show good agreement with the actual observed fracture shapes. Moreover, the strain response of the fractured thin plate is significantly higher than that of the unbroken thick plate sample.
[158] Wei Xiaogang,Qin Zhifan,Wang Shiao ,等.Experimental study on dynamic impact mechanical properties and fracture resistance mechanism of polypropylene fiber reinforced concrete[J].Journal of Building Engineering,2025,112 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Polypropylene fiber-reinforced concrete (PPFRC) is widely used in engineering applications. However, its dynamic impact on the mechanical properties and fracture mechanisms is not fully understood. An experimental study was conducted to investigate the mechanical properties and crack-resistance mechanism of PPFRC. The split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB), high-speed photography and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) were used in this paper. The dynamic mechanical properties, crack propagation, failure patterns, and micromorphological characteristics of the PPFRC specimens were analyzed. The fiber crack-resistance mechanism was elucidated. The results indicate that the PPF content has an optimal influence on the mechanical properties, exhibiting a pronounced strain rate dependence. Furthermore, the strain rate and PPF content synergistically affected the energy-evolution properties. At low PPF content, an increase in PPF content enhances energy dissipation. However, when the PPF content is too high, the energy dissipation is transformed into an attenuating effect. The crack propagation behavior and fragment size distribution were analyzed quantitatively. Additionally, the morphological features and fractal characteristics of the fragments were quantitatively assessed. The microscopic crack resistance mechanism of the fiber was explained. The mechanical mechanisms and engineering applications of fiber concrete were discussed. This study provides theoretical reference value and important engineering application prospects for clarifying the fiber improvement mechanism in concrete.
[159] Wang Kai,Lu Chunliu,Li Hongchao ,等.Study on the impact dynamic fracture of T-shaped beam-column specimens with complex prefabricated cracks[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,139 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In large-scale industrial plants, high-rise buildings and bridges, T-beams, as key load-bearing components, may be subjected to dynamic loads such as explosions, impacts, etc., which are complex and most of the structures are damaged in practice. Therefore, in this paper, hammer impact experiments were carried out on different numbers of T-beams with internal tension cracks, and the dynamic fracture characteristics of T-beams were investigated by using the dynamic focal dispersion line test system. The results show that in the impact dynamic fracture study of T-beam specimens with complex prefabricated cracks, the number of cracks increases, but the number of cracks through the specimen does not increase simultaneously, and only the prefabricated cracks in the beams close to the loading point start to crack. When only the cracks at the beam end increased, after the beam crack penetration, the residual stresses caused the beam-column intersection to crack twice, expanding in the core in a “C” shape, and the fracture toughness of the node decreased to 0.8 MN/m<sup>3/2</sup>, with a decrease of about 33 %. In the three specimens containing internal prefabricated cracks, the end with high stress expanded first, and then the unloaded stress increased significantly and caused the other end to expand, with the maximum increase in stress intensity factor reaching 166 %. The number and location of prefabricated cracks had a significant effect on the crack expansion rate and expansion path. The more the number of cracks, the slower the overall expansion, and the average speed of the specimen with a single crack is 244 m/s; the fastest expansion of internal cracks, the stress intensity factor of the crack initiation on the left side of the column is only 0.63MN/m<sup>3/2</sup>, and the post-crack initiation of the column cracks affects the expansion of the beam cracks. The results of the study can provide theoretical references for the dynamic response problems and damage laws
[160] 王浩,宗琦,汪海波 ,等.不同应变率下干燥及饱水凝灰岩拉伸力学性能及裂纹扩展试验研究[J].采矿与安全工程学报,2024,41 (2):420-429
摘要：为研究饱水状态和应变率对凝灰岩拉伸力学特性的影响,采用电液伺服压力机及直径50 mm分离式霍普金森压杆(SHPB)对凝灰岩开展静态和动态巴西圆盘劈裂拉伸试验,利用高速摄像系统获取试件在高应变率下裂纹扩展过程及破碎形态,并结合放大1000倍的电子数码显微镜观测岩石表面及断口处的细观结构。研究结果表明:试件拉伸强度存在明显的应变率效应,且应变率越大,试件到达峰值应力的时间越短;静载作用下饱水试件抗拉强度均值是干燥试件的88.12%,0.2,0.3,0.4 MPa气压作用下,饱水试件拉伸强度分别为干燥试件的99.89%,95.25%和90.52%,饱水作用对岩体造成劣化,降低其抗拉强度;0.2,0.3,0.4 MPa气压作用下,饱水试件动态增强因子(DIF)均值分别是干燥试件的1.14,1.08,1.05倍,由于黏聚力与“stefen”效应的存在,饱水试件DIF高于干燥试件;随着应变率的增大,试件裂纹扩展速度加快,且饱水试件裂纹扩展宽度和速度均高于干燥试件;静载作用下试件呈典型劈裂拉伸破坏形式,动载作用下试件拉伸与剪切破坏共存;凝灰岩自身存在大量原生节理、孔隙等结构薄弱面,在应力波作用下,试件薄弱面处的裂纹发生扩展贯通并最终发生破坏,水的侵蚀作用使饱水试件裂纹扩展程度明显高于干燥试件。
[161] Liu, Jinhai,Zhang, Erhui,Huang, Tao .Mesoscopic characterization of visualized damage-induced crack propagation in calcareous-cemented medium-fine grained conglomerate[J].Bulletin of Engineering Geology and the Environment,2026,85 (5):275-275,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：Calcareous-cemented medium-fine grained conglomerate (CCMFGC), a typical weakly cemented rock mass widely found in coal-bearing sedimentary strata, significantly influences mining pressure distribution and roadway support design. This study examines the mesoscale behavior of damage-induced crack propagation in CCMFGC, focusing on the conglomerate roof of Panel 723-06 Lower in Tianchen Coal Mine. A multi-dimensional characterization approach was employed to analyze the lithology and composition of specimens, along with damage features, crack propagation mechanisms, spatial fracture network evolution, and seepage properties under uniaxial loading. Key findings include: lithological analysis identifies the specimen as grayish-white calcareous-cemented medium-fine limestone conglomerate, with the following mineral composition: quartz (58.9%), plagioclase (4.8%), K-feldspar (2.9%), calcite (23.4%), dolomite (6.2%), illite (0.7%), chlorite (2.1%), and hematite (1%). The damage process in CCMFGC follows a sequential chain of "cementation crushing -> crack coalescence -> structural loosening," leading to the transition from a continuous to a fractured medium. Mechanical loading serves as the primary driver of main crack propagation, with significant positive correlations identified among key parameters such as pore radius, channel number, and mean radius. The evolution of seepage characteristics in CCMFGC arises fundamentally from the dynamic coupling between cementation structure damage and the seepage field. This study provides a theoretical basis for stability analysis, roof management, support design, and rockburst prevention in mining panels with conglomerate roof strata.
[162] Weiting Gao,Fei Wang,Meng Wang ,等.An innovative DIC-assisted configuration for testing high-speed dynamic crack propagation in brittle materials[J].Journal of Materials Research and Technology,2025,38 :4838-4848,Elsevier Science
摘要：High-speed crack propagation is widely recognized as a governing factor in the strength, energy-absorption capacity and catastrophic failure modes of brittle materials. In this work, a wedge-notch circular-end (WNCE) specimen was developed and employed in a split Hopkinson pressure-bar system to interrogate dynamic fracture in Polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) material. A 75 mm unobstructed, mode-I ligament was provided, while a semi-circular tail was designed to decouple the specimen passively from the bars after the first stress pulse. Ultra-high-speed digital image correlation (350 kfps) was applied, permitting full-field displacement and principal-strain mapping at micro-second resolution. Stress-rate ramps of 255–790 GPa/s were imposed; force-equilibrium conditions were achieved for all tests. Crack velocities were observed to rise monotonically from 624.78 m/s to 1211.99 m/s, thereby demonstrating stable, single-front acceleration into the near-Rayleigh regime. Self-similar process-zone shapes were documented throughout propagation. The WNCE geometry enables quantitative measurement of the complete high-speed fracture process in brittle solids.
[163] Li, Liuchi,Zare, Arezoo,Xu, Xinyi ,等.Quantitative in situ studies of dynamic fracture in a lithium metasilicate glass-ceramic by x-ray phase contrast imaging[J].Journal of the American Ceramic Society,2025,109 (1),WILEY
摘要：Glass-ceramics are produced through controlled crystallization of base glass, with many of their properties depending on the specific microstructures. With respect to their mechanical properties, although this dependence has been widely studied under quasi-static loading conditions, limited studies have been carried out beyond the quasi-static regime, especially in the context of ***, we study the fracture of lithium metasilicate glass-ceramics having different microstructures but nominally identical mechanical properties, under dynamic three-point-bend loading conditions. Using time-resolved x-ray phase contrast imaging, we capture crack initiation and propagation in glass-ceramics specimens and quantify the crack tip speed evolution. We find that the crack speed differs for specimens possessing different microstructures, an observation that cannot be captured by linear elastic fracture mechanics theory via a standard homogenization modeling procedure. Postmortem characterizations of fracture surfaces aided by scanning electron microscopy and white light interferometry reveal strong crack-crystal interactions (e.g., trans-granular fracture) and identify a correlation between a lower crack speed and an increased roughness of the fracture surface. Our work demonstrates microstructure-modulated fracture behavior in glass-ceramics and brings up the scale interplay between material heterogeneity and homogenization in the context of modeling fracture in heterogeneous materials.
[164] Mu, Xing-Hai,An, Hua-Ming,Liu, Hong-Yuan ,等.Hybrid Finite-discrete Element Method for Crack Initiation and Propagation in Rock-like Materials[J].科学技术与工程,2025,25 (34):14845-14853,Beijing Kexue Jishu yu Gongcheng Zazhishe
摘要：To simulate the processes of crack initiation and propagation in rock-like materials under static and dynamic loading conditions, a HFDEM(hybrid finite-discrete element method) was proposed. The HFDEM addresses the limitation of the Y2D model, which can only simulate single cracks, and incorporates an empirical relationship between the dynamic and static strengths of rock to better account for the effects of dynamic disturbances. The proposed method was applied to quasi-static Brazilian splitting tests and dynamic asymmetric three-point bending tests to analyze the processes of crack initiation and propagation, as well as the influence of loading rates on rock fracture behavior. The results demonstrate that HFDEM effectively integrates the advantages of finite element and discrete element techniques, accurately simulating the mechanical behavior of rock both before and after failure, and enabling the transition from a continuum to a discontinuum state. Furthermore, comparisons with analytical solutions and fracture patterns from Brazilian splitting tests validated the accuracy of HFDEM. Preliminary analyses also revealed the effects of loading rates on the dynamic fracture process and fracture toughness of rock. © 2025 Beijing Kexue Jishu yu Gongcheng Zazhishe. All rights reserved.
[165] Zhao Yan,Liu Yupeng,Hu Dianyin ,等.Advanced dynamic Bayesian network-based real-time prediction of fatigue crack propagation under variable amplitude loading[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,322 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper proposes a crack propagation prediction method under variable amplitude loading based on advanced dynamic Bayesian network (DBN) to address the problem that it is difficult to realize the accurate prediction of individual crack propagation prediction based on the traditional model fitted with historical data. An improved particle filtering algorithm based on Metropolis-Hastings (M−H) sampling is introduced to overcome the particle impoverishment problem of the traditional DBN algorithm. And the sensitivity analysis of the Wheeler model parameters is used to simplify the variable nodes of the DBN model from six to three, enhances computational efficiency while maintaining accuracy. The advanced DBN model is developed using ABAQUS-FRANC3D coupled simulation results for accurate crack propagation prediction under variable amplitude loading. Fatigue crack propagation tests were conducted on three compact tension (CT) specimens subjected to distinct loading sequences. Experimental results demonstrate that the prediction error is 0.30 mm, with a relative prediction error of approximately 1.99 %, confirming the model’s effectiveness. The advanced DBN method effectively mitigates uncertainty impacts, enabling robust and high-precision crack growth predictions under variable amplitude loading sequences.
[166] Yajing Gong,Yong Peng,Shuguang Gong .Symplectic time-domain finite element method for solving dynamic impact and crack propagation problems in peridynamics[J].Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements,2025,172 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper proposes a novel algorithm, the symplectic time-domain finite element method (ST-FEM), for solving the equation of motion within the peridynamics (PD) framework, with a focus on dynamic impact problems and crack propagation prediction. An iterative scheme for the PD equation of motion is established using the time-domain finite element method (T-FEM), with symplectic conservation of the transfer matrix and algorithm stability verified. Three numerical examples demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of the ST-FEM algorithm, along with the analysis of the effects of time element size and material point spacing. The results indicate that, compared to the explicit forward difference method with the second-order convergence in both the time and spatial domains, the ST-FEM with a linear convergence in the time domain, achieves the same level of computational accuracy. This demonstrates that the proposed ST-FEM for solving PD equations of motion has the combined advantages of both the symplectic conservation algorithm and T-FEM. The algorithm's accuracy in predicting crack propagation paths is validated through the Kalthoff-Winkler experiment and dynamic fracture tests on an l-shaped beam. Furthermore, the time element size should match the impact process time step to achieve computational accuracy and efficiency.
[167] Chao, Yang,Pengfei, Zhang,Wei, Wang ,等.The Finite Particle Method for Solving Crack Propagation of Three-Dimensional Solids[J].固体力学学报,2025,46 (1):39-53,Huazhong University of Science and Technology
摘要：Simulating three-dimensional (3D) crack propagation in solid structures poses significant challenges due to the unpredictability of crack paths, complicating both computation and solution strategies. Traditional methods often face difficulties in accurately capturing arbitrary crack propagation during large deformations. The finite particle method (FPM), based on vector mechanics, offers a novel numerical approach for analyzing complex behaviors in solid mechanics. Different from conventional continuum-based methods. FPM discretizes the solid domain into a collection of finite particles, each governed by Newton's second law of motion. This particle-based formulation enables seamless transitions between continuum and non-continuum behaviors by dynamically adding or removing particles, providing significant advantages for crack propagation analysis in both static and dynamic scenarios. In this study, the FPM is extended to address the dynamic fracture in 3D solids, focusing on the challenges related to crack initiation. propagation, and branching. The FPM is combined with an extrinsic cohesive zone model (CZM) to capture the complex behaviors of fractures, avoiding the need to pre-define crack paths and effectively managing discontinuities caused by crack propagation. A discriminant criterion is developed to identify the onset of crack initiation, and an automated embedding process for cohesive elements is implemented to enable real-time simulation of fracture surfaces. To manage the evolving topologies that arise from crack propagation, we propose a general strategy based on an ergodic search algorithm, which updates the connectivity of the discretized solid model dynamically as cracks evolve. In addition, we develop a GPU-based parallel solver using the CUDA toolkit to significantly accelerate fracture computations. The accuracy and applicability of the proposed method are validated through several numerical examples, including fracture simulations of plates and bea
[168] Wen, Sen,Song, Ruotong,Wang, Shaofeng ,等.Study on the dynamic fracture mechanical properties of composite specimens under mode I loading conditions[J].Bulletin of Engineering Geology and the Environment,2026,85 (4):228-228,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：To reveal the fracture evolution characteristics of composite rock strata under high strain rates, dynamic three-point bending (notched semi-circular bend, NSCB) tests were conducted using a split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) system on both homogeneous rocks and composite specimens. A coupled PFC3D-FLAC3D model integrating the particle flow and finite difference methods was developed to analyze the effects of incident wave parameters on crack evolution. The results indicate that the peak strength increases by approximately 35% as the impact pressure rises from 0.3 MPa to 0.5 MPa, while increasing the notch length from 5 mm to 10 mm reduces the strength by about 20%. The dynamic fracture toughness increases with the loading rate. With increasing impact pressure, specimens with a layer inclination of 135 degrees exhibit a transition from mode I to mixed mode I-II fracture, whereas cracks in specimens with inclinations of 45 degrees and 90 degrees mainly propagate near the loading supports. The numerical results show that when the incident wave wavelengths are 100, 300, and 500 & micro;s, the composite specimen with a 45 degrees layer inclination exhibits the lowest peak strength at a wavelength of 300 & micro;s, while the peak strength of specimens with other inclinations decreases as the incident wave wavelength increases. Higher wave amplitudes lead to increased crack density and fragmentation. The inclination and propagation direction of cracks are governed by layer inclination and notch geometry.
[169] 蔡小培,董博,胡永利 ,等.严寒地区CRTSⅢ型底座板裂纹扩展规律研究[J].铁道工程学报,2025,42 (5):32-37,42,Editorial Department of Journal of Railway Engineering Society
摘要：研究目的:为探究严寒地区路基冻胀下高铁无砟轨道底座板裂纹特征,本文以路基段CRTSⅢ型底座板为研究对象,建立基于扩展有限元法的底座板裂纹扩展模型,研究冻胀作用位置、幅值、波长及既有裂纹等因素对底座板裂纹的影响,从而确定底座板开裂的敏感位置,揭示多种冻胀条件下底座板裂纹扩展规律。研究结论:(1)路基冻胀下底座板开裂表现为表面裂纹的横向扩展,后期伴随少量裂纹深度扩展,当冻胀作用在凹槽附近,裂纹的垂向深度较冻胀作用在非凹槽区域时有明显增大;(2)随冻胀幅值的增加,裂纹横向长度快速增大,后逐渐趋于稳定;(3)冻胀波长的增加缓解了底座板局部应力集中,有效抑制了裂纹向底座板中部与深度两方向的扩展,避免了裂纹出现较大的垂向偏转角度;(4)当既有裂纹与轨道板横向夹角较大时,裂纹向底座板中部的扩展趋势有所减缓;(5)本研究成果可为严寒地区无砟轨道裂纹研究提供理论依据。
[170] Lopez-Cabrera, H. R.,Figueroa-Lopez, U.,Guevara-Morales, A. .Determining polyamide dynamic fracture resistance under plane strain conditions by High-Speed Double Torsion tests[J].SPE Polymers,2025,6 (2),WILEY
摘要：Polyamide 12 (PA12) has emerged as a high-performance alternative to high-density polyethylene (HDPE) for gas pipeline applications, particularly under high-pressure conditions exceeding 10 bar. A critical challenge in polymer pipelines is rapid crack propagation (RCP), which highlights the importance of accurate characterization of dynamic fracture resistance. In this study, the high-speed double torsion (HSDT) test was employed to evaluate the dynamic fracture resistance under plane strain conditions (G(d1)) of PA12 at 0 degrees C. Experiments were performed at impact speeds of similar to 13, 20, and 31 m/s, and results showed that G(d1) decreases as impact and crack speeds increase, consistent with semicrystalline polymer behavior. Compared with reported G(d1) values for pipe-grade HDPE, PA12 demonstrated superior fracture resistance, with G(d1) values of 10.13 kJ/m(2) at an impact speed of similar to 31 m/s. Predictions from a dynamic-linear-elastic model supported the reliability of the estimated values. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis revealed distinct fracture zones, and crack front shapes transitioned from flat to curved with increasing impact speed, confirming plane strain behavior. These findings reinforce the suitability of PA12 for high-pressure applications and demonstrate the effectiveness of HSDT for characterizing dynamic fracture resistance under plane strain conditions in thermoplastic materials.
[171] Jialun Zhou,Xujia Hou,Qiyue Hou ,等.Investigations on the loading rate sensitivity of dynamic fracture in CFRP: A combined synchrotron and numerical study[J].Composites Science and Technology,2025,270 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This work investigates the intrinsic mechanism governing the interlaminar fracture toughness of carbon fibre-reinforced resin matrix composites (CFRPs) under dynamic loadings, addressing the controversy and divergent findings regarding the dependence of CFRP fracture toughness on loading rate. To achieve this, in situ SHPB tests and cohesive zone model (CZM) numerical simulations were employed. Optical high-speed imaging, synchrotron X-ray phase contrast imaging, X-ray computed tomography, and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) characterisation were combined to examine the damage processes and microscopic damage morphologies, enabling assessment of the crack initiation and propagation under dynamic loading conditions. A optimization strategy for CZM parameters based on <em>in-situ</em> measurements were proposed and validated. A high-fidelity, loading-rate-dependent finite element model was established to assist in analyse the interlaminar fracture mechanism of CFRPs. The results indicate that the fracture toughness of a material is unaffected by the loading rate within the dynamic loading-rate range of 7.9–24.9 MJ/(m<sup>2</sup>·s). This is because even with an increase in loading rate, the proportion of brittle failures at the crack tip will also increase, allowing the high strain energy accumulated at the crack tip to be released early.
[172] Lin Lang,Zhenwu Luo,Quan Yuan ,等.Crack arrest characteristics and dynamic fracture parameters of moving cracks encountering double holes under impact loads[J].International Journal of Impact Engineering,2025,195 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Brittle materials such as rock or concrete contain a large number of micro-cracks, voids, and other defects. Under external impacting loads, the interaction between fissures and holes affects the bearing capacity and stability of Engineering structures. To study the interaction mechanism between moving cracks and circular holes, a large-size semi-circular notched with a fissure and double circular hole (SNFDH) specimen was suggested in this research, and the dynamic fracture tests were carried out on the SNFDH specimens with different double circular hole spacing (35 mm, 40 mm, 45 mm, 50 mm, 55 mm, 60 mm, and 70 mm) using a drop hammer impact test device. Crack propagation gauges were employed to track the time and velocity at which the crack propagated along its trajectory. Dynamic Drucker-Prager yield criterion and cumulative damage failure criterion were used in the numerical simulation of the SNFDH concrete materials. The program AUTODYN was employed to simulate the crack growth characteristics when a crack encounters the double hole. The program ABAQUS was applied to calculate the dynamic fracture parameters of cracks. The test results manifest that the crack propagating trajectory has three different characteristics according to the double hole spacing; the double circular hole has an arresting function for a moving crack; the size of the double hole spacing has a significant effect on the crack propagating velocity, crack propagating length, dynamic stress intensity factor and dynamic energy release rate; the configuration of the SNFDH specimen can be used to investigate the crack arrest mechanism when moving crack encountering double holes.
[173] Yang, Mo,Cheng, Baolin,Nie, Weirong ,等.Analysis of Brittle Fracture Characteristics Under Static/Dynamic Loads in Silicon-Based MEMS Cantilevers[J].Journal of Microelectromechanical Systems,2026,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Silicon-based MEMS cantilevers are widely used in high-reliability microsystems. Addressing the unclear relationship between the fracture strength of silicon-based MEMS cantilevers under static loads and high-strain-rate dynamic loads, this study investigates the typical cantilever-type setback safety device in fuze MEMS safety and arming devices. A dynamic model of a cantilever with a concentrated mass at the end was established. Through material characterization, static and dynamic loading experiments, and numerical simulations, the fracture response characteristics were systematically examined. The crystal orientation and mechanical parameters of (111)-oriented single-crystal silicon were verified through X-ray diffraction and nanoindentation testing. The critical fracture stress of cantilevers was obtained under quasi-static loading and half-sine acceleration impact loading. The results indicate that the fracture stress under dynamic load is significantly lower than that under static load. The load factor K was introduced to effectively describe the relationship, with an average value of approximately 3.0620. Fracture section analysis further revealed the fundamental differences in crack propagation patterns under varying load conditions. The findings can serve as guidance for the engineering design of silicon-based cantilever.[2026-0027]
[174] Pan, Wei,Abdelmoula, Radhi,Li, Jia ,等.Simulation of the propagation speed of prefabricated crack in ceramic sample under flame thermal shock by the phase-field method[J].Journal of Engineering Mathematics,2025,152 (1):1-27,SPRINGER
摘要：In this work, the phase-field theory is applied to the thermodynamic equations to effectively solve the transient crack propagation problem of ceramics under flame thermal shock. The entire dynamic cracking process recorded in experiments is reproduced numerically. The inertial effect on the crack initiation and growth is considered in the whole simulation process. Comparing the numerical results with the experimental results in the literature, it is found that the present method can accurately estimate the instantaneous speed of crack propagation. In addition, the effects of mesh size and different geometrical parameters of the prefabricated crack such as its angles, positions, and lengths on the propagation speed of the moving crack are investigated through detailed numerical simulations. The numerical results show that compared to a quasi-static model, taking the inertia effect into account in simulations can provide better provision of the cracking process due to flame thermal shock.
[175] 王龙凯,刘丰源,唐宏宾 ,等.含传感器嵌入槽的风电主轴轴承局部疲劳裂纹扩展研究[J].轴承,2026
摘要：传感器内嵌式一体化智能轴承是风电主轴轴承发展的重要方向,该类轴承的嵌入槽结构会改变轴承本体的应力分布状态,进而影响裂纹的扩展路径与演化行为。为揭示含传感器嵌入槽风电主轴轴承的局部疲劳裂纹扩展规律,基于应力强度因子与裂纹扩展速率的关系,通过引入有限元子模型联合网格重划分技术嵌入初始裂纹,建立了考虑传感器嵌入槽影响的风电主轴轴承疲劳微裂纹扩展模型,基于该模型,研究了不同轴向角度和深度下初始裂纹(位于嵌入槽)与外圈次表层裂纹的扩展特性及其与寿命的关联规律。结果表明:风电主轴轴承外圈嵌入槽处裂纹及次表层裂纹均以混合型扩展模式为主导;疲劳裂纹扩展寿命受嵌入槽深度影响最为显著,揭示了风电主轴轴承的裂纹扩展路径及其演化寿命。
[176] Yan Zhou,Dongqing Tian,Junjie Zhou ,等.Fracture morphology of fine-grained nuclear graphite under dynamic load[J].Journal of Nuclear Materials,2025,614 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Nuclear graphite is widely used in high-temperature gas-cooled reactors due to its excellent neutron moderation capabilities and mechanical stability at elevated temperatures. However, graphite components in these reactors are exposed to complex environments and diverse loads, including dynamic forces potentially arising from earthquakes, aircraft impacts, and internal explosions. This study investigates the fracture behavior of nuclear-grade graphite, specifically SIAMC fine-grained graphite and IG-11 graphite, under dynamic loading by examining their fracture morphology. Fracture surface roughness of graphite discs was measured, and three-dimensional surface reconstructions were conducted. Results show a significant decrease in surface roughness with increasing strain rates, indicating a trend toward a flatter fracture surface driven by changes in crack propagation paths. Furthermore, the microscopic crack growth mechanism of fine-grained nuclear graphite under dynamic loading is elucidated, enhancing our understanding of its fracture behavior under dynamic conditions.
[177] Sobhan Pattajoshi,Sonalisa Ray .Dynamic fracture analysis of multi-layer composites using an improved RHT model[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,325 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The present study investigates the dynamic fracture behaviour of concrete in multi-layer composite targets subjected to projectile impact loading. The Riedel, Hiermaier, and Thoma (RHT) model is widely used for simulating concrete damage under impact and extreme loading conditions. While the original RHT model provides reasonable penetration depth and residual velocity predictions, it has notable limitations in capturing tensile failure mechanisms, particularly spalling damage and tensile cracking. An improved RHT (M-RHT) model has been proposed to address these shortcomings, incorporating an exponential hydrostatic expansion damage model and an exponential tensile crack-softening damage model within a user-defined material subroutine. These modifications enable more accurate predictions of spalling damage and dynamic crack paths. The effectiveness of the proposed M-RHT model is demonstrated through single-element simulations, showing a significant improvement in the representation of tensile damage evolution. The model is further validated using projectile penetration simulations, where it accurately predicts damage sizes, crack propagation, and residual velocities, aligning well with experimental observations. The improved RHT model has been applied to simulate the projectile impact on the multi-layer composite target. Compared to the original RHT model, the M-RHT model exhibits improved damage predictions in multi-layer composite targets by accurately capturing spalling and tensile cracking.
[178] Ba, Jin-lu,Wang, Jun-xiang,Liu, Xin-chen ,等.Efficient SPH-PD FSI model for blast-induced crack initiation and propagation in rocks[J].International Journal of Fracture,2026,250 (2):31-31,SPRINGER
摘要：In tunnel blasting engineering, drilling and blasting method remains a widely adopted and efficient technique for excavating hard rock masses. Precise control of blast-induced dynamic responses is crucial for both project safety and construction efficiency. Smoothed particle hydrodynamics (SPH) and peridynamics (PD) are widely used to simulate fluid-structure interactions (FSI). This study proposes an SPH-PD FSI model to investigate gas-rock interactions under blast loading. An index-acceleration algorithm is proposed to optimize computational efficiency during the preprocessing stage. The proposed model offers advantages in algorithmic simplicity, computational efficiency, and adaptability to significant particle spacing differences. The model was validated through representative cases. The displacement trend line (DTL) analysis and the quantitative relative displacement method were applied to elucidate the blast-induced crack initiation and propagation mechanisms. Numerical results reveal the influence of prefabricated crack angles on cracking patterns. This study offers theoretical insights into the damage evolution of rocks with prefabricated cracks under blast loading, advancing understanding of crack propagation mechanisms.
[179] Ben Said, Lotfi,Hentati, Hamdi,Turki, Mohamed ,等.Efficient Phase-Field Modeling of Quasi-Static and Dynamic Crack Propagation Under Mechanical and Thermal Loadings[J].Mathematics,2025,13 (11),MDPI
摘要：The main objective of this work was to model the failure mechanisms of brittle materials subjected to thermal and mechanical loads. A diffusive representation of the crack topology provides the basis for the regularized kinematic framework used. With a smooth transition from the undamaged to the fully damaged state, the fracture surface was roughly represented as a diffusive field. By integrating a staggered scheme and spectral decomposition, the variational formulation was used after being mathematically written and developed. Its effectiveness was analyzed using extensive benchmark tests, demonstrating the effectiveness of the phase-field model in modeling the behavior of brittle materials. This proposed approach was experimentally tested through the examination of crack propagation paths in brittle materials that were subjected to variable mechanical and thermal loads. This work focused on the integration of a spectral decomposition-based phase-field model with thermo-mechanical coupling for dynamic fracture, supported by benchmark validation and the comparative assessment of energy decomposition strategies. The results highlight the accuracy and robustness of numerical and experimental methodologies proposed to model fracture mechanics in brittle materials subjected to complex loading conditions.
[180] Nie, Fu-kuan,Zhou, Lei,Wang, Hao-han ,等.Mechanical properties and fracture evolution of tunnel surrounding rock under the coupling effect of static and dynamic loads[J].Journal of Central South University,2026,33 (3):1307-1331,Central South University
摘要：Deep tunnels are often subjected to the combined effects of high geostress and dynamic disturbances,which results in more complex mechanical properties and failure modes compared to shallow *** study the failure characteristics of tunnel surrounding rock under static-dynamic coupled loading,dynamic tests were conducted using a typical split Hopkinson pressure bar(SHPB)apparatus at different strain *** fracture process was recorded using a high-speed camera,and the surrounding rock's strain field evolution law was analyzed using digital image correlation(DIC)***,a series of numerical simulations under static-dynamic coupled effects were performed using the LS-DYNA *** results indicate that as the strain rate increases,the main failure mode of the tunnel shifts from tensile failure to shear *** pressure significantly suppresses the width and length expansion of cracks,while axial pressure promotes crack propagation,leading to an earlier crack initiation time and triggering more secondary *** study also reveals that the lateral pressure coefficient(k)has an obvious inhibition on the tunnel damage ***,through the analysis of the dynamic stress concentration factor(DSCF),it is found that the existence of confining pressure affects the stress concentration distribution of surrounding *** findings provide theoretical support for a deeper understanding of tunnel failure mechanisms and the optimization of tunnel design.
[181] 刘先增,林高远,刘永斌 ,等.非对称循环交变动载荷下惰轮裂纹扩展研究[J].应用力学学报,2026,43 (2):407-417,Xi'an Jiaotong University
摘要：惰轮轮齿的两工作齿廓依次与主、从动轮的轮齿工作齿廓交替接触啮合使轮齿承受非对称循环交变载荷,齿根处拉、压应力状态交替出现,致使其裂纹扩展行为复杂。通过等效离散化将惰轮两工作齿廓的啮合过程模拟为等效移动载荷依次在两工作齿廓的离散点上加载,考虑闭合效应下拉、压应力状态交替变化引起的影响,提出了非对称循环交变载荷下惰轮裂纹扩展仿真方法,分别在准静态和动态载荷情况下开展惰轮裂纹扩展研究。结果表明:相比于拉应力受载状态,拉、压应力交变受载状态下压应力会延缓齿根应力强度因子KⅠ增长,使裂纹前缘开裂角θ增大,且随着裂纹扩展压应力的影响逐渐减小,当压应力失效时KⅡ显著下降,使有效应力强度幅值ΔK_(eq)显著增大,导致裂纹扩展寿命降低;相比于准静态载荷,动态载荷会促进KⅠ增长,使裂纹前缘开裂角θ减小,使有效应力强度幅值ΔK_(eq)显著增大,导致裂纹扩展寿命降低。
[182] Hung Thanh Tran .A novel nonlocal damage zone adaptation technique for dynamic brittle fracture based on the energy limiter concept[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2026,455 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This work presents a novel and general numerical technique for updating the solution domain and associated nonlocal diffusive cracks, aimed at enhancing computational efficiency in crack growth analysis within an energy limiter-based gradient damage framework. Recognizing that cracks in brittle materials typically initiate and evolve locally within a narrow region relative to the entire structure, the proposed algorithm solves the nonlocal damage evolution equation only within the active damage zone. Regions outside this zone are considered undamaged and excluded from the damage field update, thus avoiding unnecessary computations. In detail, this new accelerated treatment adaptively redefines the active solution domain by adjusting the number of degrees of freedom involved in the gradient damage evolution law during the progression of the smeared crack, thereby significantly reducing the computational cost without compromising the regularization benefits or the accuracy of the nonlocal damage modeling framework. To further improve performance, the algorithm is integrated with an explicit dynamic finite element scheme that updates displacement, velocity, and acceleration through direct time integration, eliminating the need for iterative solvers. Numerical examples in two and three dimensions demonstrate robustness and accurate prediction of crack initiation, propagation, branching, and merging, together with substantial reductions in solution time compared to conventional full-domain simulations. This research opens a new direction for reducing the computational cost of gradient damage analysis, making it more feasible for large-scale fracture simulations.
[183] Bittencourt, Eduardo .Scale-effects on crack propagation in FCC single crystals[J].Multiscale and Multidisciplinary Modeling, Experiments and Design,2025,8 (6):1-14,SPRINGERNATURE
摘要：In this work, scale influence on crack propagation and on plastic strain distributions in a single FCC crystal is investigated numerically. A novel dynamic continuum crystal plasticity formulation, implemented in the finite element method, is used coupled with a cohesive zone model. A non-conventional fully coupled mixed formulation is proposed where displacements and plastic slips are calculated by balance equations. Geometrically necessary dislocation (GND) effects are introduced through a strain gradient crystal plasticity model. An exploratory study on micro-inertia effects caused by moving micro-defects is also considered. The model introduces three different material sizes: one related to micro-inertia and two others related to GND hardening. When two different GND hardening mechanisms are considered, energetic and dissipative, the current formulation is able to reproduce details of the crack propagation kinematics only obtained before by simulations in the discrete dislocation scale. This work suggests that this was possible because a full dynamic solution is considered. Also, due to micro-inertia, the model is able to capture dislocation starvation for very small scales, which is a novelty for a continuum scale model. Therefore, the present model is able to connect the discrete dislocation scale and the macroscopic scale in the case of crystal fracture.
[184] Ding, Penglong,Gong, Xuhui,Sun, Lei ,等.A Study on Crack Initiation and Propagation of Welded Joints under Explosive Load[J].Journal of Marine Science and Engineering,2024,12 (6),MDPI
摘要：Welded joints in naval ship hull structures are weak areas under explosive load, but there are relatively few studies investigating the failure characteristics of welded joints through dynamic fracture and explosion tests. In order to explore and predict the failure characteristics of welded joints under explosive load, instrumented Charpy impact tests, explosion tests, and numerical simulations were carried out. The dynamic fracture toughness of ultra-high strength ship hull structural steel welded joints was obtained, and the dynamic stress intensity factors, together with the correlation between stress wave and crack propagation at different positions, were acquired. The results showed that the stress state at the crack tip of a Charpy impact specimen was consistent with that of a welded joint under explosive loads, and the crack initiated when the dynamic stress intensity factor exceeded the dynamic fracture toughness. The results indicated that the dynamic fracture toughness obtained by instrumented Charpy impact tests could be used to predict the crack initiation characteristics of welded structures under explosive load, and the stress wave at the crack tip was basically perpendicular to the crack propagation surface and promoted the rapid propagation of cracks.
[185] Xue, Huajun,Wang, Yanbing,Yang, Weihong ,等.Experimental and Numerical Study of Damage Evolution and Fracture Characteristics of Three-Layer Composite Rocks Under Dynamic Loading[J].Applied Sciences,2025,15 (19),MDPI
摘要：In order to study the damage evolution and fracture characteristics of rock with different composite modes in three layers under dynamic loading, rock specimens with different composite modes were made by using three materials: sandstone, marble and granite. The dynamic fracture impact test was carried out by using the Hopkinson pressure bar impact loading system, the voltage signal on the Hopkinson pressure bar was calculated and processed, and the crack propagation mode of the specimen was captured by using a high-speed camera, and the stress wave characteristics, stress time-history relationship and energy change characteristics of rocks with different composite modes were studied. At the same time, combined with Distinct Lattice Spring Model numerical simulation, the fracture process of the specimen was inverted, and the changes in stress intensity factor, stress change and load-displacement change in monitoring point were analyzed to compare the dynamic fracture behavior differences between different composite rocks. The results show that the dynamic fracture process captured by the high-speed camera has a good fit with the crack propagation process simulated by numerical simulation. When marble is used as the upper material, the energy transmittance is larger, and the transmission energy ratio between sandstone and granite is basically the same due to the large difference in hardness. When the comprehensive hardness of the specimen is the same, the smaller the hardness of the material at the cracking position, the faster the cracking will be, and the smaller the hardness of the second layer of the specimen at the cracking position, the faster the cracking speed of the specimen. In terms of dynamic fracture toughness, for specimens with little difference in hardness, when the impact end material is sandstone, the dynamic fracture extreme value of the specimen is lower, and when the sandstone material is used as the impact end material, it is more likely to crac
[186] Yang, Xin,Zhou, Hang,Ran, Zhengxi ,等.Numerical simulation of crack propagation and penetration under dual-hole blasting[J].振动与冲击,2025,44 (17):202-214,Chinese Vibration Engineering Society
摘要：Here, to study dynamic fracture behavior of rock under blasting, the finite element method was used to simulate crack propagation and penetration process of sandstone undet single hole blasting and dual-hole one. Firstly, existing test data were used to calculate and obtain polynomial state equation coefficients of sandstone, and based on Hoek-Brown criterion, Johnson-Holmquist (JH-2) constitutive model parameters were obtained. Internal and external actions of single hole blasting were simulated to better reproduce features of crushing zone and fracture zone, and successfully verify the reliability of sandstone's polynomial state equation and JH-2 constitutive model as well as their material parameters for dynamic crack simulation. The simulation results of dual-hole blasting showed that under different hole spacings and time delays, "most of model holes have cracks penetrating among them, at the same time, time delay has a certain impact on crack propagation and penetration, which exhibits compressive stress wave of first-up blast hole having a certain suppressing effect on cracks of later-up blast hole to hinder mutual penetration of cracks among holes;crack penetration has 3 main forms of direct penetration, indirect penetration and mixed penetration;in process of indirect penetration, the action of circumferential cracks is to bridge up and down intersecting radial cracks. Finally, further analysis and exploration were performed for mechanisms of crack interlocking and penetrating, and it was shown that the occurrence of these two phenomena mainly depends on distributions and mutual influences of stress fields at two crack tips. © 2025 Chinese Vibration Engineering Society. All rights reserved.
[187] Deepak B. Jadhav,Dhananjay Phansalkar,Kerstin Weinberg ,等.A spatio-temporally adaptive asynchronous variational integrator for a phase field model of dynamic fracture[J].Mechanics of Materials,2026,215 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Phase field modeling of fracture is an effective approach for simulating crack propagation. However, the presence of a length scale parameter in the phase field model requires a uniformly fine mesh, leading to high computational costs, especially in dynamic simulations where the global time step is determined by the smallest spatial mesh element. A recently proposed asynchronous variational integrator (AVI) for the phase field modeling of dynamic fracture addresses this by allowing each spatial element to evolve with an independent time step. In this approach, mechanical fields are updated at every time step, while the phase field is updated only after the displacement update of the largest spatial mesh element, reducing the computational costs. We build upon this formulation by incorporating spatial adaptivity, refining the mesh based on a criterion guided by the phase field variable. This leads to a spatio-temporally adaptive AVI for the phase field model of dynamic fracture, with spatial adaptivity driven by the phase field evolution and temporal adaptivity inherently provided by the AVI. Benchmark studies show that the proposed method reduces computational costs while accurately capturing dynamic fracture behavior.
[188] Wang, Zichen,Li, Liang,Shi, Peixin ,等.A thermo-mechanical coupling peridynamic model for dynamic fracture in concrete[J].Journal of Building Engineering,2026,126 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：<ul class="list"><li class="react-xocs-list-item"><span class="list-label">•</span><span class="list-content"><div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="p0010">A thermo-mechanical coupling model of concrete, incorporating bond rotation effects and thermally induced property degradation, is developed based on an intermediate-homogenized bond-based Peridynamics.</div></span></li><li class="react-xocs-list-item"><span class="list-label">•</span><span class="list-content"><div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="p0015">The thermal damage mechanism of concrete with varying matrix strengths from 200 °C to 800 °C is characterized during heating, insulation, natural cooling, and ambient temperature stages.</div></span></li><li class="react-xocs-list-item"><span class="list-label"></span><span class="list-content"><div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="p0020">•The failure behavior of concrete after high temperatures is explored by considering the full process of dynamic loading at different strain rates.</div></span></li><li class="react-xocs-list-item"><span class="list-label"></span><span class="list-content"><div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="p0025">•The validity of framework is verified by comparing crack propagation, failure modes, and dynamic stress-strain curves between simulation and experimental results.</div></span></li></ul>
[189] Sudhishna, P. N. R. L.,Mondal, Sourav,Mondal, Tridib K. .Spatio-temporal evolution of a fluid-driven crack and its propagation: Insights from experiment and mathematical modelling[J].Journal of Earth System Science,2025,134 (3):1-17,INDIAN ACAD SCIENCES
摘要：We present a complete numerical solution of a 3D transient, first-principle-based model for penny-shaped fluid-driven cracks, advancing from the existing scaling laws and extending beyond the previously produced (limiting) asymptotic profiles. Our mathematical analysis is complemented by experimental studies that explore fracture growth and the regime of the developed fracture. The study focuses on fracture toughness and viscous-dominated regimes, highlighting the applicability of our hydrodynamics-dominated penny-shaped fracture model predictions. The fracture experiments were carried out in a solid analogue material (gelatin) of dimensions 15 cm x 15 cm x 15 cm in a glass reservoir at a laboratory scale under simulated environments. Since the gelatin is transparent, tracking is feasible, and we track 3D crack formation and propagation in real time. We focus on the operational parameters that affect the evolution and propagation of cracks in an elastic medium dominated solely by hydrodynamic stress or in competition with the solid toughness. In our investigation, the injection rate and viscosity of the fracturing fluids are varied to study their influence on crack formation and propagation. To get an insight into the strain occurring in the gelatin, recorded strain displacement measurements are related to the dynamic evolution of the 3D fracture. The self-similar nature of the physical system of equations suggests that this problem is scale-independent and thus can be related to large-scale engineering applications such as hydraulic fracturing and CO2 geo-sequestration technologies.
[190] Li, Xianglong,Yan, Shiqian,Wang, Jianguo ,等.Influence of Slot Width in Cartridge on Crack Propagation and Energy Concentration Under Explosion Load[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2025,58 (2):1707-1721,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：The demand for controlled blasting technology is increasing and the employment of slotted cartridges becomes prevalent. To investigate the influence of slot width on the patterns of crack expansion (crack refers to the sudden and violent fracture that occurs during blasting), five sets of model experiments were performed utilizing the dynamic caustics test system, with the slot width ranging from 0.50 to 1.50 mm. Upon this, numerical simulation was performed using the LS-DYNA finite element software to scrutinize the stress propagation process, and analyze the peak Von Mises stress at diverse monitoring points surrounding the borehole. It indicates that the angle (theta) of the primary crack at the slot is affected by the slot width (B), and their relationship agrees with an inverse tangent function. The angle (theta) gradually increases with the augmentation of the slot width (B). Furthermore, the average peaks of burst primary crack expansion velocity and dynamic stress intensity factor are affected by the slot width. The former experiences a reduction of 38%, while the latter undergoes a decline of 42% across the spectrum of slot width from 0.50 to 1.50 mm. The numerical simulation results indicate a close alignment between the crack expansion pattern and the observations from dynamic caustics experiments. The Von Mises stress primarily concentrates in the normal direction of the slot and at the tip of the crack. With the augmentation of slot width, the Von Mises stress at each monitoring point in the slot direction suddenly increase, and the time-course curve presents the more pronounced double peaks. A variety of mini slot pipes were designed for indoor dynamic caustic test to study the effect of slot width in cartridge on the directional concentration *** inverse tangent function between the crack angle and the cartridge slot width sheds light on the structural dynamics of auxiliary *** consistency of theoretical formulas, dynamic caustic exper
[191] Pei, Guangzhao,Xiao, Dingjun,Zhang, Miaomiao ,等.Study on the Dynamic Fracture Properties of Defective Basalt Fiber Concrete Materials Under a Freeze-Thaw Environment[J].Materials,2024,17 (24):6275,MDPI
摘要：This study examines the crack resistance of basalt-fiber-reinforced concrete (BFRC) materials subjected to freeze-thaw cycles (FTCs). We utilized a phi 50 mm Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar (SHPB) apparatus alongside numerical simulations to carry out impact compression tests at a velocity of 5 m/s on BFRC specimens that experienced 0, 10, 20, and 30 FTCs. Additionally, we investigated the effects of basalt fiber (BF) orientation position and length on stress intensity factors. The results reveal that with an increasing number of FTCs, the dynamic crack propagation speed of BFRC with a prefabricated crack inclined at 0 degrees rises from 311.84 m/s to 449.92 m/s, while its pure I fracture toughness decreases from 0.6266 MPa<middle dot>m0.5 to 0.4902 MPa<middle dot>m0.5. For BFRC specimens with a prefabricated crack inclination of 15 degrees, the dynamic crack propagation speed increases from 305.81 m/s to 490.02 m/s, accompanied by a reduction in mode I fracture toughness from 0.3901 MPa<middle dot>m0.5 to 0.2867 MPa<middle dot>m0.5 and mode II fracture toughness from 0.6266 MPa<middle dot>m0.5 to 0.4902 MPa<middle dot>m0.5. In the case of a prefabricated crack inclination of 28.89 degrees, the dynamic crack propagation speed rises from 436.10 m/s to 494.28 m/s, while its pure mode II fracture toughness decreases from 1.1427 MPa<middle dot>m0.5 to 0.7797 MPa<middle dot>m0.5. Numerical simulations indicate that fibers positioned ahead of the crack tip-especially those that are longer, located closer to the crack tip, and oriented more perpendicularly-significantly reduce the mode I stress intensity factor. However, these fibers have a minimal impact on reducing the mode II stress intensity factor. The study qualitatively and quantitatively analyzes the crack resistance of basalt-fiber-reinforced concrete in relation to freeze-thaw cycles and the fibers ahead of the crack tip, offering insights into the fiber reinforcement effects within the concrete matrix.
[192] Yousheng Mao,Jingpeng Zhang,Fang Yang ,等.Study on residual stress relaxation and small crack propagation behavior of laser shock peened FGH4098 alloy[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2026,341 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, the effects of laser shock peening on small crack propagation behavior were investigated in FGH4098 alloy, a nickel-based powder metallurgy superalloy commonly used in aeroengine turbine disks. X-ray diffraction and electron backscattering diffraction were used to characterize the evolution behavior of the residual stress field and work hardening layer on the surface of FGH4098 alloy. A three-point bending fatigue test combined with the replica method were used to study the small crack growth behavior, revealing how laser shock peening influencing the small fatigue crack growth behavior in FGH4098 alloy. Results show that the compressive residual stress field induced by laser shock peening exhibits remarkable thermo-mechanical stability. The relaxation depth reached 0.7 mm with a relaxation magnitude within 50% at 650℃, the dense dislocation tangles and refined sub-grains act as a microstructural anchor resisting thermal activation. The deep residual stress field locally reduces the stress ratio and significantly promotes plasticity-induced crack closure, diminishing the effective driving force for crack growth. However, at elevated temperatures, this inhibitory effect weakens due to stress relaxation and dynamic dislocation recovery, leading to smoother crack paths.
[193] 吕可,杨冰,王栓程 ,等.6005铝合金激光−MIG复合焊接接头裂纹扩展行为[J].焊接学报,2025,46 (4):82-93
摘要：开展了6005A-T6铝合金激光–MIG复合焊接接头裂纹的疲劳裂纹扩展行为研究,并结合数字图像相关技术(digital image correlation,DIC)获取试验过程中的裂纹尖端局部位移场,进而研究接头和母材裂纹闭合效应的差异.结果表明,激光–MIG复合焊接焊缝试样与母材试样的疲劳裂纹扩展速率相近,但后期扩展更快,而热影响区试样的扩展速率明显偏低.基于4%柔度偏移值确定裂纹展开力,所有试样均符合裂纹闭合因子U随裂纹扩展而逐渐增大的整体规律,但焊缝裂纹闭合程度先降低后逐渐升高到母材水平,而热影响区裂纹闭合程度则前期略低于母材,后期超过母材,且未出现明显收敛趋势.根据Elber公式对裂纹扩展数据进行修正以消除裂纹闭合对扩展速率的影响,修正前后裂纹扩展数据分散性并未得到明显改善,表明仅考虑裂纹闭合效应仍不能对接头疲劳裂纹扩展行为进行准确描述.
[194] 张宇,张罡,张强 ,等.压力交变载荷作用下储气库注采管柱疲劳裂纹扩展研究[J].中国安全科学学报,2025,35 (1):120-126
摘要：为提高注采管柱安全风险预测的准确性,首先,采用联合仿真分析方法,开展直通型缺口紧凑拉伸试样疲劳裂纹扩展过程有限元验证;然后,建立储气库含外表面裂纹注采管柱疲劳裂纹扩展有限元模型,在压力交变载荷作用下,研究储气库注采管柱的疲劳裂纹扩展行为。研究结果表明:试样模拟结果与疲劳裂纹试验结果基本吻合,表明联合仿真法在疲劳裂纹扩展分析方面具有较高精度;在注采管柱疲劳裂纹扩展过程中,初始裂纹的长深比越大或应力比越高,裂纹扩展速率越快,临界最小裂纹长度为4 mm;在相同的压力载荷循环次数下,初始裂纹周向夹角越大,表面裂纹扩展长度越长,临界最小周向夹角为45°;无论初始裂纹周向夹角如何,裂纹始终沿管柱轴线方向扩展,裂纹失稳扩展长度为52 mm;在储气库交替注采时,应合理控制交替注采压力载荷的幅值,避免疲劳裂纹的萌生和扩展。
[195] Lusheng Wang,Yihui Yin,Xia Huang ,等.Twin and phase boundaries synergistic effect on multiscale dynamic fracture in Ni-based deformed superalloy[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2024,131 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A multi-scale model of dynamic impact fracture of Ni-based deformed superalloy was proposed based on molecular dynamics and finite element methods, and verified by experiments to reveal the synergistic effect of twin and phase boundaries on dynamic fracture properties and behavior from nanoscale to macroscale. The results show that the synergistic effect of twin and phase boundaries can effectively suppress the unfavorable brittle propagation in the nanoscale owing to the dispersed distribution of strengthening phase-induced reduction of the stress concentration on the twin boundary. The nucleation and emission of perfect dislocations, Shockley dislocations, and Frank dislocations promote ductile propagation, while the pile-up of stair-rod dislocations induced stress concentration leads to brittle propagation. In the macroscale, the synergistic effect of twin and phase boundaries can effectively inhibit the loss of dynamic fracture toughness, and impede crack initiation and crack propagation through the reduction of Mises stress concentration and the decrease of maximum equivalent strain caused by the dispersed Ni<sub>3</sub>Al precipitates. The physical mechanism of the multi-scale crack propagation and fracture, and the influence law of dynamic fracture toughness of Ni-based deformed superalloy, can provide a guide to the failure prediction, protection, and development of aviation turbine blades. © 2024
[196] Zeliang Xiao,Baokui Yan,Bo Hu ,等.The enhanced mesh stiffness model and tribo-dynamics of cracked spur gears considering mixed lubrication contacts and irregular crack propagation[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2025,326 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Two compound cracks composed of an initial straight crack and evolved into a circular arc or parabolic crack, resulting from time-varying operating conditions of spur gears throughout the lifecycle, are modeled. The fractal theory is used to establish the contact stiffness model of asperities contacts and interactions in the mixed lubrication regime. The enhanced mesh stiffness model is developed and validated using the finite element method, and tribo-dynamic models of cracked spur gears in mixed lubrication are established. The effects of crack models, depths, and lubrication regimes on the modified mesh stiffness and the tribo-dynamic behavior of cracked gears are investigated. The results show that the decrease in gear mesh stiffness with crack model 2 is substantially smaller compared with crack model 1 since an arc section is more prone to resist deformations. A higher fractal dimension notably enhances the developed mesh stiffness of cracked gear pairs. The crack depth in two crack models rather than lubrication regimes plays a dominant role in the developed mesh stiffness. Moreover, the crack model 1 than model 2 leads to greater amplitude and fluctuation in gear dynamic responses, which indicates two compound crack shapes are likely to be diagnosed using the tribo-dynamics of crack gears.
[197] Sihui Tong,Dongqing Tian,Qinwei Ma ,等.Static and dynamic fracture toughness of graphite materials with varying grain sizes[J].Journal of Nuclear Materials,2024,599 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Graphite materials play critical roles as moderators, reflectors, and core structural components in high-temperature gas-cooled nuclear reactors. During the reactor operation, graphite materials may experience a variety of loads, including thermal, radiation, fatigue, and dynamic loads, potentially leading to crack initiation and propagation. Therefore, it is imperative to investigate their fracture properties. Despite this, there remains a paucity of comprehensive studies on the fracture toughness of graphite materials with varying grain sizes, particularly concerning dynamic fracture toughness. This study addresses this gap by employing a digital-image-correlation-based virtual extensometer to analyze crack propagation in graphite materials of different grain sizes, enabling precise measurement of crack propagation length and fracture toughness. Findings reveal that static fracture toughness increases with larger grain sizes, while under dynamic loading, smaller grain sizes exhibit greater fracture toughness. Additionally, dynamic fracture toughness shows a near-linear increase with impact speed. Scanning electron microscopy analysis of fracture surface morphology highlights the impact of grain size and impact speed on fracture toughness. Nuclear graphite specimens with larger grain sizes have more irregular grain and pore distributions, enhancing crack deflection and propagation resistance, thereby increasing fracture toughness. The observed loading rate dependence of dynamic fracture toughness is attributed to a gradual transition from intergranular to transgranular fracture modes with increasing impact speed. © 2024 Elsevier B.V.
[198] Tubing Yin,Yulong Zhao,Jianfei Lu ,等.Dynamic mechanical behavior and fracture evolution characteristics of hole-filled sandstone after thermal treatment[J].Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics,2025,139 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：During underground resource extraction activities, the surrounding rock of tunnels is highly vulnerable to high-temperature threats caused by fires. Additionally, the rock mass inherently contains natural joints and fractures of varying sizes and shapes, which further expand under high temperatures, leading to more severe engineering hazards. Therefore, a systematic understanding of the mechanical behavior and failure mechanisms of rocks with defects (both unfilled and filled) under high temperatures and dynamic disturbances is crucial for designing safer deep tunnel structures and preventing disasters in rock engineering after high-temperature exposure. This study conducted pretreatment on both holed and hole-filled specimens at five temperature levels: 25 °C, 200 °C, 400 °C, 600 °C, and 800 °C. They were subjected to dynamic loading using a Split Hopkinson Pressure Bar (SHPB) system coupled with high-speed cameras to record the failure process. Digital image correlation (DIC) technology was employed to capture the strain evolution. The results show that high-temperature treatment affects the dynamic strength, peak strain, and energy dissipation characteristics of the specimens, while also altering the mineral composition and content of the sandstone. Crack initiation predominantly occurred around the holes, with failure modes dominated by shear cracks and tensile-shear hybrid ***, filling the hole defects significantly modified the crack initiation points and propagation paths. However, the influence of hole filling on dynamic strength exhibited a notable temperature-dependent effect. This study investigates the effects of high temperatures on the dynamic mechanical properties and crack propagation behavior of fractured rock masses, providing a scientific basis for engineering safety design and fire disaster prevention.
[199] 郭东明,王恒恺,张伟 ,等.微差爆破作用下多条定向裂纹扩展行为试验研究[J].矿业科学学报,2026,11 (2):317-327
摘要：基于数码电子雷管的精细化微差爆破破岩工程中,采用炮孔切槽可以控制爆生裂纹的扩展方向。为分析微差时间对多条定向裂纹扩展行为的影响,开展了多向切槽炮孔试件的微差爆破动态焦散线试验,分析了裂纹扩展路径和裂纹尖端力学特征。研究结果表明:炮孔多向切槽可以较好地控制裂纹扩展方向,2组试件的爆生主裂纹沿切槽方向扩展,先爆炮孔的大部分裂纹长度大于后爆炮孔;在微差时间为30μs时,孔间裂纹在相遇处呈“勾连状”分布,后爆炮孔裂纹的偏转角度更大;裂纹扩展速度、动态应力强度因子和动态能量释放率的变化趋势基本一致,其在裂纹靠近时显著上升,先爆炮孔裂纹的变化幅度更大,2条裂纹转变为Ⅰ-Ⅱ复合型后交错扩展;在微差时间为180μs时,后爆炮孔在水平方向的切槽导向作用减弱,呈“Y”形裂纹分布,先爆炮孔的裂纹扩展速度受到明显影响。研究结果对优化微差时间及提高破岩效率具有参考价值。
[200] Jinlai Yang,Tong Zhang,Meng Chen ,等.Experimental and theoretical characterization of the dynamic mode-I fracture properties of sprayed ultra-high performance concrete with hybrid discarded and manufactured fibers[J].Construction and Building Materials,2025,494 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study evaluates the potential application of utilizing discarded steel fibers as replacements for manufactured steel fibers in sprayed ultra-high performance concrete (S-UHPC), emphasizing the assessment of mode-I dynamic fracture characteristics. In detail, ultra-rapid image-aided dynamic fracture tests within loading rates of 30–90 GPa·m<sup>1/2</sup>/s were systematically performed to evaluate hybrid fiber effects and loading rate influences on mode-I fracture toughness and fracture energy dissipation, followed by microstructural mechanism characterization and dynamic fracture energy prediction. Among the tested mixtures, S-UHPC reinforced with 2.0 vol% discarded fibers exhibited the lowest static fracture toughness (3.19 MPa·m<sup>1/2</sup>), which is 45.3 % lower than that of S-UHPC with 2.0 vol% manufactured fibers and 26.0 % lower than that of S-UHPC with hybrid fibers. Compared with manufactured fibers reinforced S<strong>-</strong>UHPC, using mono discarded fibers caused a 46.9 %–52.9 % decrease in dynamic crack initiation toughness and a 52.1 %–56.1 % decrease in crack propagation energy. Morphological characterization indicates that manufactured fibers form longer effective bridging lengths and denser network configurations, thereby improving fracture resistance. According to dynamic J-integral theory, the dynamic fracture energy of hybrid fiber reinforced S-UHPC can be effectively predicted through the modified Griffith-Irwin relationship. Overall, the hybrid system incorporating 1.0 vol% manufactured fibers and 1.0 vol% discarded fibers emerges as the optimal mixture for practical engineering applications, considering both mechanical performance and environmental sustainability.