[1] Xiangliang Xing,Penghai Deng,Quansheng Liu ,等.Influence of the hard-to-soft rock layer thickness ratio on the tensile strength of Brazilian disc specimens and the stability of anti-dip slopes[J].Engineering Fracture Mechanics,2026,332 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Soft-hard interbedded anti-dip slopes (SHIADSs) are frequently encountered in slope engineering. Previous studies have rarely considered the influence of the thickness ratio between hard and soft rock layers on the tensile strength of soft-hard interbedded rock specimens and the stability of SHIADSs. Therefore, the finite-discrete element method (FDEM) was adopted to study the influence of the layer thickness ratio on the strength characteristics and failure behavior of soft-hard interbedded rock specimens, as well as its influence on slope stability and failure modes. The research results show that: (1) When using FDEM to study layered rock masses, unstructured mesh topology should be employed, and the number of mesh layers in a single rock layer should not be less than 3 layers; (2) As the layer thickness ratio <em>δ</em> increases, the tensile strength of the specimens increases in a power function. However, depending on the layer thickness ratio <em>δ</em>, the relationship between tensile strength and layer dip angle <em>θ</em> can be divided into three modes: V-shaped variation when <em>δ</em> ≤ 1.0, irrelevance to layer dip angle when <em>δ</em> = 2.0, and a gradual decrease with the increase of layer dip angle when <em>δ</em> ≥ 3.0; (3) The safety factor of SHIADSs increases in a power function with the increase of the layer thickness ratio, which is similar to the variation law of tensile strength. In addition, for slopes with the same layer thickness ratio, their safety factors first decrease and then increase with the increase of the layer dip angle, reaching the minimum value when the layer dip angle is 60°-70°; (4) According to the differences in layer dip angles and layer thickness ratios of SHIADSs, the failure mechanisms can be divided into 7 types, and the failure mode can be classified into 3 types: sliding failure, toppling-sliding failure, and toppling failure. This fills the gap in previous studies where only the toppling failure mode was consid
[2] Jiu-chang Zhang,Jia-min Chen .An anisotropic weighted Voronoi method for mesostructure reconstruction in rock materials and its application to Brazilian test simulations[J].Computational Particle Mechanics,2025,12 (6):5007-5024,Elsevier Science
摘要：Granite, a commonly used construction material in engineering, is primarily composed of minerals like quartz, mica, and feldspar, characterized by its heterogeneity and brittleness. The mesostructure and mechanical properties of these mineral particles critically affect the macroscopic mechanical behavior of granite. Creating numerical models of rock materials' mineral structures through computational reconstruction is an essential method for advancing rock mechanics studies. This paper introduces an anisotropic weighting function to the traditional equal-weight Voronoi method, presenting a novel algorithm for generating the mineral particle mesostructure in rock materials based on an elliptical control domain. The innovation of this algorithm lies in optimizing Voronoi diagram control by adjusting anisotropic weighting coefficients, which enables precise regulation of particle gradation and aspect ratio, accurately reconstructing high-volume fraction mineral particle mesostructures. This approach is particularly suited for describing the mesostructural characteristics of heterogeneous, multi-mineral rock materials, such as granite. In this study, the mineral composition and geometric parameters of specific granite particles serve as a model. Using statistical analysis results of these parameters, the algorithm reconstructs a mesostructural geometric model for granite. Additionally, a numerical analysis model for the Brazilian test of granite is developed for application with the finite discrete element method (FDEM). Through a series of continuous–discontinuous FDEM simulations, the mechanical response and crack propagation patterns in the samples are examined, and the influence of key interface mechanical parameters is comprehensively analyzed. This study demonstrates the practicality of the anisotropic weighted Voronoi-based high-volume fraction particle mesostructure generation method for simulating granite's mechanical properties, offering vital technical suppo
[3] Zelin Yan,Jidong Jin,Linjuan Wang ,等.Experimental and numerical study on the dynamic mode III fracture behaviors of rock using an axially notched flattened Brazilian disc in SHPB tests[J].International Journal of Impact Engineering,2024,190 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The dynamic mode I and mode II fracture of rock have been widely investigated over the past decades. However, the lack of dynamic mode III fracture testing method and the rare understanding of mode III fracture mechanism of rock remain a significant knowledge gap in the realm of rock mechanics. In this work, an innovative axially notched flattened Brazilian disc (ANFBD) sample is proposed for the mode III fracture tests of rocks using the split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB). Firstly, the optimal geometrical dimension of the ANFBD sample for achieving true mode III fracture of rocks is comprehensively discussed using finite element method (FEM) analysis. Then, the reliability of ANFBD-SHPB method is experimentally verified through dynamic mode III fracture experiments on the Fangshan marble (FM). Laboratory experimental results show that the mode III fracture toughness (K<sub>IIId</sub>) values of FM are approximately 2.8 times of the mode I fracture toughness (K<sub>Id</sub>) values at similar dynamic loading rates. Post-mortem examinations on the fracture surfaces show that the famous facet coarsening mechanism in mode III fracture is suppressed under high loading rates. Furthermore, insightful assessments regarding the inner progressive fracturing behaviors of the ANFBD sample are given by virtue of three-dimensional discrete element method (DEM) simulation. Moment tensor (MT) analysis indicates that the shear fracture mechanism mainly dominates the whole failure process of the ANFBD sample, while the tensile fracture mechanism slightly increases during the facet coarsening process. These results are of significant importance for revealing the failure mechanism of rock under dynamic mode III loading and give some beneficial implications for natural strike-slip fault structures. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[4] Bin Chen,Jiansheng Xiang,John-Paul Latham ,等.Grain-scale failure mechanism of porous sandstone: An experimental and numerical FDEM study of the Brazilian Tensile Strength test using CT-Scan microstructure[J].International Journal of Rock Mechanics and Mining Sciences,2020,132 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Many widely used numerical models of rock fracture based on mesoscale laboratory test characterisation of effective ‘intact’ strength parameters neglect microstructure effects. They therefore cannot explain grain boundary and pore effects on crack propagation and consequently are inadequate for models of rock destruction that exploit point and indentation stresses. Understanding deep drilling processes involving drill-bit buttons and/or water-jetting where rock loading is concentrated in domains with fewer mineral grains will therefore require models with microstructure. To investigate microscale failure mechanisms of granular rocks in diverse scenarios, we target a porous sandstone and introduce a novel workflow consisting of a computerized tomography (CT) based microstructure construction approach and a complementary mechanical numerical approach. The construction approach extracts the realistic rock microstructure and transforms the large voxel number CT-scan data into significantly fewer triangular elements. The finite-discrete element method (FDEM) with grain-based model (GBM) is adopted to solve the mechanics. The microscale failure mechanism of sandstone during the Brazilian test was thoroughly analysed using the numerical results together with the post failure CT-scan test data. The build-up of compressive and tensile stress chains, micro-crack nucleation, local relaxation, chain switching and final crack-path development exploiting pores was illustrated, revealing the micro-to-macro failure mechanism in time and space. Fracture paths in the specimens during Brazilian tensile test were dominated by the pores and the inter-grain boundaries. The tensile strength of the inter-grain joints was estimated to be at least 3.67 times the mesoscale specimen's intact tensile strength, while the pores account for 72.76% of the fracture path. The influence of the cementation distribution and microscale discontinuities was investigated with numerical cases. © 2020 Elsevie
[5] Shahrin, M., I,Abdullah, R. A.,Jeon, S. ,等.Calibration of rock Brazilian test using discrete element method in LS-DYNA[M].4TH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDING ENGINEERING & 12TH REGIONAL CONFERENCE IN CIVIL ENGINEERING (ICONBUILD & RCCE 2019),2020,849 (1),IOP PUBLISHING LTD
摘要：Brazilian test which also known as indirect tensile test is widely used to evaluate the tensile strength of rock. Discrete element method (DEM) together with finite element method (FEM) approach was used to investigate numerically the response of granite material under Brazilian test for indirect measurement of tensile strength of rocks. The calibration analysis performed in this study using the commercial software LS-DYNA. It has been attempted to calibrate the micro-parameters in bonded particle model of granite rock for numerical modelling. In hybrid DEM-FEM simulation, the rock specimen was modelled in DEM while the steel plates were simulated using FEM. This numerical analysis is compared to experimental data of Brazilian test. It shows that the combination of numerical methods simulation could reproduce the trends of experimentally observed stress-strain curve of granite rock under tensile loading. Besides that, the hybrid DEM-FEM simulation also shows the same failure mode of granite specimen. Comparison between experimental data and numerical analyses is presented and discussed.
[6] Dejian, Li,Hao, Qi,Chunxiao, Li ,等.Brazilian disc splitting tests and numerical simulations on coal samples containing bedding planes[J].矿业科学学报,2020,5 (2):150-159,Emergency Management Press
摘要：In this paper,Brazilian disc splitting tests on coal rock specimens with bedding planes and corresponding simulations by combined finite/ discrete numerical method(FDEM)were carried out. The results show that the angle of bedding plane have a significant influence on fracture pattern and tensile strength of coal. It is clear that as the angle of weak plane increases,the fracture pattern of models can be classified into four types,including stretching failure perpendicular to weak bedding planes,complicated sketching and shear mixed pattern,shear failure along the bedding planes,and sketching damage along weak bedding planes. As for the difference of tensile strength values,it is observed that when the load is perpendicular to the bedding plane,the effect of bedding structure on calculating tensile strength is negligible and the tensile strength value decreases with the angle rising up to the minimum value as angle reaches vertical. In addition,with respect to dissipated energy of coal samples,it is concluded that the dissipated energy gradually decreases when the angle of bedding planes are increased,which have a relationship with varied fracture patterns and strength values. © 2020 Emergency Management Press. All rights reserved.
[7] Jeremiah C. Leyba .Modeling and Simulation of Damage In The Brazilian Indirect Tension Test Using The Finite-Discrete Element Method[D],2018
摘要：The Brazilian indirect tension test is used to investigate possible correlations between progressive damage and associated permeability changes. The test offers ease of replicability with a damage behavior known to lead to fracture openings as a tool for interpreting the indirect tensile strength of concrete and rocks. This behavior can lend insight into the nature of tensile damage and fracture progression in association with changes in permeability. The nature of these brittle materials is known to exhibit rapid failures in the Brazilian indirect tension test and require a method to retard the progression of damage for the possibility of acquiring permeability measurements. Experimental results are replicated and investigated using the finite-discrete element method, which allows for the replication of both the elastic and post-peak fractured behaviors seen within the test. The model results are used to interpret the progression of damage and its type. Investigations of a sample pre-damaged with a drop tower is also made to observe a differing damage mechanism. The model validates the methodology behind what is called the stiff Brazilian indirect tension test and results from the models indicate that damage progression initiates near the contact points as shear separations, quickly followed by tensile separations along the line of fracture. The FDEM code used is observed to be a useful method for continued investigations into future modifications to the Brazilian indirect tension test for a broader damage and permeability correlation objective.
[8] Mahabadi, O. K.,Cottrell, B. E.,Grasselli, G. .An Example of Realistic Modelling of Rock Dynamics Problems: FEM/DEM Simulation of Dynamic Brazilian Test on Barre Granite[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2010,43 (6):707-716,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：The scope of this study is to numerically simulate the behaviour of Brazilian disc specimens as observed in laboratory during dynamic, high-strain rate, indirect tensile tests using an innovative combined finite-discrete element method (FEM/DEM) research code. Laboratory experiments using a split Hopkinson pressure bar (SHPB) apparatus were conducted by the authors and the measured indirect tensile strength values were used to verify the FEM/DEM models. In the models the applied boundary conditions, related to the loading rate of the specimen, were matched with the experimental observations. The results of the numerical simulations, including tensile strength and failure time, are in agreement with the laboratory findings. The main failure mechanisms, i.e. tensile splitting along loading axis and shear failure close to loading platens are captured by the numerical model. A linear relationship between tensile strength and loading rate is found for the range of dynamic strain rates tested and simulated. The simulation results are in good agreement with laboratory observations and demonstrate the potential for using FEM/DEM to realistically model dynamic response of rocks.
[9] An, Huaming,Shi, Jianjun,Zheng, Xin ,等.Hybrid Finite-Discrete Element Method Modeling of Rock Failure Processes in Brazilian Disc Tests[J].Electronic Journal of Geotechnical Engineering,2016,21 (7),ELECTRONIC JOURNAL GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEERING-EJGE
摘要：A hybrid finite-discrete element Method is introduced to simulate fracture and fragmentation processes of Brazilian disc test. A combined single and smeared crack model is implemented to simulate the transition from continua to discontinua of rock fractures and the interaction of its generated fragments. Brazilian disc test is modelled by a proposed integrated development environment, i.e. Y-2D/3D IDE, incorporating the hybrid finite-discrete method and the combined single and smeared crack model. It is found that the proposed method reproduces the processes of stress initiations and propagations and the fracture and resultant fragments of rock in Brazilian disc tests. The obtained failure patterns show identity with well documented experiments. It concluded that the hybrid FEM/DEM demonstrates its capability in modelling the behaviors of Brazilian disc under static loading rates.
[10] Cai, M. .Fracture Initiation and Propagation in a Brazilian Disc with a Plane Interface: a Numerical Study[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2013,46 (2):289-302,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：In the present study, fracture initiation and propagation from a pre-existing plane interface in a Brazilian disc is investigated using a finite-discrete element combined method. Different fracture patterns, depending on the frictional resistance of the pre-existing crack or interface, are observed from the numerical simulation. It is found that when there is no or very little frictional resistance on the surfaces of the pre-existing crack, the primary fractures (wing cracks), which are tensile in nature and are at roughly right angles to the pre-existing crack, start from the tips of the pre-existing crack. As the friction coefficient increases, the wing cracks' initiation locations deviate from the crack tips and move toward the disc center. Secondary fractures, which are also tensile in nature, initiate from the disc boundary and occur only when the length of the pre-existing crack is sufficiently long. The secondary fractures are roughly sub-parallel to the pre-existing crack. The failure load is found to be influenced by the friction coefficient of the pre-existing crack. A 38 % failure load increase can result when the friction coefficient changes from 0 to 1. A good understanding of the fracture initiation and propagation in the forms of primary and secondary fractures provides insight into explaining some fracture patterns observed underground.
[11] M I Shahrin,R A Abdullah,S Jeon ,等.Calibration of rock Brazilian test using discrete element method in LS-DYNA[J].IOP Conference Series: Materials Science and Engineering,1000,849 (1):012026-012026,IOP Publishing
摘要：<p>Brazilian test which also known as indirect tensile test is widely used to evaluate the tensile strength of rock. Discrete element method (DEM) together with finite element method (FEM) approach was used to investigate numerically the response of granite material under Brazilian test for indirect measurement of tensile strength of rocks. The calibration analysis performed in this study using the commercial software LS-DYNA. It has been attempted to calibrate the micro-parameters in bonded particle model of granite rock for numerical modelling. In hybrid DEM-FEM simulation, the rock specimen was modelled in DEM while the steel plates were simulated using FEM. This numerical analysis is compared to experimental data of Brazilian test. It shows that the combination of numerical methods simulation could reproduce the trends of experimentally observed stress-strain curve of granite rock under tensile loading. Besides that, the hybrid DEM-FEM simulation also shows the same failure mode of granite specimen. Comparison between experimental data and numerical analyses is presented and discussed.</p>
[12] M. Cai,P.K. Kaiser .Numerical simulation of the Brazilian test and the tensile strength of anisotropic rocks and rocks with pre-existing cracks[J].International Journal of Rock Mechanics and Mining Sciences,2004,41 (3):450-451,Elsevier Science
摘要：In the present study, an FEM/DEM coupled approach is used to simulate the fracture process in Brazilian tests. The study was performed using proprietary software to simulate both the intact rock behaviour and the development of fractures. Through the introduction of distinct elements with assigned contact properties, if the fracture criterion within the intact rock (represented by FEM) is met, then a crack (represented by DEM) is initiated. Adaptive re-meshing allows the fracture process through the FEM mesh to be tracked and visualized. In this study, Brazilian tests of rock samples with isotropic and anisotropic properties are simulated. Samples with pre-existing cracks are also investigated to find out the effect of preexisting cracks on the effective tensile strength of the rock samples. It is found that rock anisotropy and preexisting cracks (length and orientation) play an important role in determining the behaviour of tensile crack initiation and propagation, and hence the overall tensile strength of the rocks. © 2004 Elsevier Ltd.
[13] 李德建,祁浩,李春晓 ,等.含层理面煤试样的巴西圆盘劈裂实验及数值模拟研究[J].矿业科学学报,2020,5 (2):150-159
摘要：对含层理的煤岩试样进行巴西圆盘劈裂实验和有限元法-离散元法(FDEM)数值模拟,结果表明层理角度对劈裂破坏模式和抗拉强度有明显影响。随着层理角度不断增大,可将劈裂破坏模式划分为4类:垂直层理面的张拉破坏;折线形张拉-剪切复合型破坏;沿层理面的剪切破坏;沿层理面的张拉破坏。对抗拉强度值进行分析可知:当垂直于层理面加载时,层理角度影响最小,抗拉强度等同于煤试样基质的抗拉强度;随着层理角度增大,抗拉强度逐渐减小;平行于层理方向加载时,抗拉强度最小。此外,从能量角度分析可知:随着层理角度增大,试样破坏所耗散的能量越来越少,破坏越容易。