[1] Yidong Guo,Dalong Jin,Dajun Yuan ,等.Dynamic analysis of cutting RC structure with shield disc-cutter: Insights from the coupled simulation and laboratory test verification[J].Engineering Failure Analysis,2025,168 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：During shield tunneling in densely populated urban areas, shield machines may unexpectedly encounter obstacles such as reinforced concrete (RC) structure. Cutting through RC structure with a shield machine presents significant challenges due to potential cutter damage and reduced cutting efficiency. In this study, dynamic analyses of cutting RC structure via disc-cutter were performed based on the finite element method-discrete element method (FEM-DEM) coupled approach. In FEM-DEM coupled model, the mechanical behaviour of concrete is represented using DEM, while the influence of the rebar in the concrete is accounted for through FEM. And the precision and dependability of the simulation results were validated through the laboratory experiments. Overall, the numerical outcomes agreed well with the experimental data. Furthermore, a parametric study was conducted, and the effects of the shield working parameters and the geometric configurations of disc-cutter on the cutting performance of the disc-cutter were investigated, respectively. Through the parametric analysis, it is recommended that the shield machine adopts a tunneling pattern with low penetration and medium rotational speed in actual project when cutting the RC structure. The findings of this study may serve as valuable references for cutting RC obstacles with disc-cutters in future applications.
[2] Yingran Fang,Xinggao Li,Yidong Guo ,等.Vibration and wear assessment of slurry TBM discharge pipeline transporting large sized rock particles: CFD-DEM-FEM multifield coupled simulation[J].Powder Technology,2025,455 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The circulation system of the slurry Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) plays a pivotal role in delivering the slurry to the excavation face and transporting the excavated rock particles to the ground. The severe vibration and significant wear induced by the transportation of large-sized particles in pressure pipelines constitute a complex multiphysics coupling problem. In this study, a numerical model of pressure pipeline conveying large-size rock particles is established based on CFD-DEM-FEM multifield coupling method with the background of a slurry TBM construction in Beijing. The engineering measured pipeline pressure loss and vibration data verified the reasonableness of the multifield coupling model. The U.S. pipeline vibration standard is introduced to systematically evaluate the vibration intensity of slurry TBM circulating pipeline. The effects of particle mass flow rate, particle size, slurry flow speed, slurry viscosity, pipeline wall thickness and fixed spacing on pipeline vibration and wear are investigated, and suggestions for the control of vibration and wear reduction in the circulating pipeline are proposed. The relevant conclusions can provide a reference for the long-term operation of slurry TBM circulation pipelines under complex geological conditions.
[3] Yidong Guo,Yingran Fang,Xinggao Li ,等.Simulation of screening characterization of double-deck vibrating screen of slurry TBM tunnelling using integrated CFD-DEM-FEM[J].Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology,2025,158 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To evaluate and optimize the screening characterization of double-deck vibrating screen of slurry TBM tunnelling, a three-dimensional (3D) coupled model of vibrating screen was established based on an integrated CFD-DEM-FEM method in this paper. The transport characteristics of particles and the fluidity of slurry were revealed, and the kinetic response of the screen surfaces was comprehensively analyzed. The results indicated that the particles were evenly distributed on the screen surface, and the velocity of the particles shows a trend of a steady increase in velocity from 0 m/s to 5 m/s. The coarse screen experienced impact forces up to 90 times greater than those on the fine screen, influenced by particle bed formation and collision dynamics, which reduced direct loads on the screen surface. Screening efficiencies of coarse and fine screens stabilized at approximately 61 % and 73 %, with coarse screens exhibiting greater efficiency fluctuations due to the particle size distribution and collisions. The stress and deformation primairly concentrate in the middle position of the screen surface near the feed and discharge ends, highlighting the need for structural reinforcements to enhance strength and stiffness. Lastly, the optimization schemes for each parameters were proposed, and applied to the slurry TBM tunnelling of Qingdao Jiaozhou Bay Second Undersea Tunnel. The findings in this work provide references and suggestions on the efficient operation of double-deck vibrating screen for slurry TBM tunnelling.
[4] Du, Wenrui,Gao, Jianqiang,Zhang, Cunzhen ,等.A Numerical Study on the Rock Breakage Mechanism with TBM Disk Cutter in Calcareous Cemented Sand Pebble Stratum Using a Coupled FEM-DEM Method[J].Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering,2025,58 (2):2319-2347,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：The calcareous cemented sand pebble stratum is a very poorly adapted stratum with the characteristics of high pebble strength, unstable mechanical properties and strong dispersion. In order to study the rock-breaking mechanism of disk cutter in calcareous cemented sand pebble stratum, a 2D cemented sand pebble model was established using random pebble generation procedure according to the distribution characteristics of the calcareous cemented sand pebble stratum of Lanzhou Metro Line 1. The parameters of the cemented sand pebble model were calibrated using numerical Uniaxial compression and Brazilian tests. The rock-breaking mechanism at different penetration depths, cutter spacings and penetration speeds was analyzed using the coupled finite element and discrete element methods (FEM-DEM). The results showed that the cutter breaks the rock mainly through the crushing area to transfer the load between the pebbles by point to point in the stratum. When the transfer load is greater than the ultimate strength of the pebbles, then the pebbles are broken due to the shear-tension mixing damage. The pebble fragmentation area and breakage energy consumption both increased linearly with increasing penetration depth, but the specific energy increased first, then decreased and tended to be stable finally. As the cutter spacing increased, the pebble fragmentation area and rock breakage energy consumption were decreased and then increased while the specific energy increased first and then decreased, and the outer profile of crushing area was distributed in "n" type. However, as the penetration speed increased, the pebble fragmentation area and specific energy decreased and increased with different power functions, respectively. The calcareous cemented sand pebble stratum was studied first in the shield *** coupled finite element and discrete element methods (FEM-DEM) was used to study the rock-breaking *** break the rock through the crushed area to transfe
[5] Zhijun Wu,Penglin Zhang,Lifeng Fan ,等.Numerical study of the effect of confining pressure on the rock breakage efficiency and fragment size distribution of a TBM cutter using a coupled FEM-DEM method[J].Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology,2019,88 :260-275,Elsevier Science
摘要：Confining pressure is an important factor that affects the rock breakage efficiency of Tunnel Boring Machines (TBMs). This study analyses the influence of the confining pressure on the rock breakage process, rock breakage efficiency and fragmentation distribution after crushing using a coupled FEM-DEM method. First, the parameters of the rock numerical model are calibrated using numerical uniaxial compression tests and Brazilian tests. Second, the rock breakage by the cutter is simulated under different confining pressures, and the influence of the confining pressure on the rock breakage process is determined. Third, using a post-processing program developed for extracting the induced fragments, the distribution of fragments after rock fragmentation is obtained, which accurately provides the fractured area of the rock to determine the variation of the specific energy (SE) with confining pressure. Finally, the equivalent length distributions of the fragments are analysed using the fractal method. The results show that the confining pressure has a significant inhibitory effect on the propagation of median cracks. The angle of the lateral crack increases with increasing confining pressure, and the length of the crack first increases and then decreases. The maximum normal force and the maximum indentation distance also increase first and then decrease with increasing confining pressure. The SE first increases with increasing confining pressure;however, when the confining pressure reaches the first critical value, the SE begins to decrease with increasing confining pressure and then continues to increase after the confining pressure reaches the second critical value. The variation of the fractal dimension with the confining pressure is similar to the variation of the SE with the confining pressure. © 2019 Elsevier Ltd
[6] 최순욱,이효범,최항석 ,等.개별요소법과 유한차분법 연계 해석을 이용한 EPB TBM 굴진해석 Part Ⅰ: 모델링[J].Tunnel and Underground Space,2020,30 (5):484-495,한국암반공학회
摘要：EPB TBM의 굴진을 수치적으로 해석하기 위해 개별요소법(DEM, discrete element method), 유한요소법(FEM, finite element method), 유한차분법(FDM, finite difference method) 등과 같은 다양한 수치해석 기법이 적용되어 왔다. 본 논문에서는 이중 개별요소법과 유한차분법을 연계하는 방식을 채택하여 EPB TBM 굴진해석 모델링 방법을 제시하였다. 제시한 개별요소법-유한차분법 연계 TBM 굴진해석 모델에서 TBM이 굴착하는 굴착부는 개별요소법을 적용하였으며, 입자 접촉 물성치의 경우 일련의 삼축압축시험을 통해 교정하였다. 굴착부 주변지반은 유한차분법을 연계시켜 정지토압계수를 고려하여 굴착부에 수평지중응력을 구현할 수 있도록 하였다. 또한, 이를 통해 소요 입자 개수를 감소시켜 모델의 해석효율을 증대시켰다. 본 논문에서 제시한 수치해석 모델은 TBM의 굴진율, 커터헤드 및 스크류 컨베이어 회전속도 등을 조절할 수 있으며 TBM 굴진 중 토크, 추력, 챔버압, 배토량을 도출해 낼 수 있다. To numerically simulate the advance of EPB TBM, various type of numerical analysis methods have been adopted including discrete element method (DEM), finite element method (FEM), and finite difference method (FDM). In this paper, an EPB TBM driving model was proposed by using coupled DEM-FDM. In the numerical model, DEM was applied in the TBM excavation area, and contact properties of particles were calibrated by a series of triaxial tests. Since the ground around the excavation area was coupled with FDM, the horizontal stress considering the coefficient of earth pressure at rest could be applied. Also, the number of required particles was reduced and the efficiency of the analysis was increased. The proposed model can control the advance rate and rotational speed of the cutter head and screw conveyor, and derive the torque, thrust force, chamber pressure, and discharging during TBM tunnelling.
[7] 方应冉 .盾构盘形滚刀受力及磨损的离散元数值分析[D],2021
摘要：随着城市规模不断扩大和人口激增,地铁建设已成为城市发展的重要方向之一。盾构机是目前最先进的隧道掘进设备,有效改善了施工人员的作业环境,具有机械化程度高、安全可靠等优点,在地下工程施工中广泛使用。盘形滚刀因其优秀的破岩性能,被广泛地用作盾构和TBM的破岩刀具。然而,在实际工程中,滚刀磨损是盾构施工最常见的损耗之一,严重影响施工效率。本论文属于科技部“973”课题“复杂条件大直径盾构长距离安全掘进理论及控制研究（编号:2015CB057802）”中的研究内容。本文通过离散元软件EDEM对滚刀破岩进行模拟仿真,结合室内试验和工程实测数据,对滚刀破岩时的三向受力和磨损进行分析,主要结论如下:（1）基于离散元软件EDEM中的bonding接触模型,通过API方法建立了仿真岩石试件,进行虚拟单轴压缩和巴西劈裂试验,对bonding粘结参数进行标定,得到了四种不同强度岩石试件的bonding参数值,对比分析了虚拟仿真与室内试验中岩石单轴压缩试验和巴西劈裂试验的破坏形态,证明了离散元方法模拟岩石单轴压缩和劈裂抗拉试验的可行性。（2）通过EDEM中的运动状态设置功能,建立了考虑滚刀绕其刀轴自转和绕刀盘中心公转两种运动的滚动圆周切割模型,开展了滚刀破岩圆周切割室内试验,对比分析了数值仿真与室内试验中滚刀的三向受力,论证了本文数值模型计算滚刀三向受力的合理性。（3）选取了深圳地铁6号线明乐停车隧道中地质参数相近、掘进参数差异明显的两个掘进区间,分别用于仿真磨损系数的标定和磨损量预测,并将预测结果与实测数据对比,论证了当掘进参数发生改变时,本文数值模型预测滚刀磨损的合理性。（4）进行了不同参数组合工况下的（岩石强度、贯入度、刀盘转速、切割角度、平磨状态等）滚刀破岩仿真模拟,分析了滚刀与岩体接触瞬间的冲击效应和滚刀破岩时三向受力变化规律,给出了考虑岩石强度、贯入度、刀盘转速等参数变化的滚刀垂直力FV、滚动力FR的拟合公式,并用CSM模型对部分结果进行验证。（5）基于Archard Wear模型,对不同工况条件下的滚刀磨损进行了分析,采用DEM-FEM耦合方法,对刀圈断裂等非正常磨损进行了研究,得出了岩石强度、贯入度、刀盘转速、破岩状态等因素对滚刀磨损的影响规律。