[1] 刘咏璐,丛虹霄,李飞 ,等.位移协调的薄壁梁非刚性连接动力学建模[J].钢结构（中英文）,2026,41 (4):38-47
摘要：基于一维高阶梁理论与位移协调条件,提出了一种针对非刚性连接薄壁结构的动力学建模方法。通过引入节点域位移协调方程与单元耦合条件,建立了能够精确描述截面畸变与接合面柔性效应的梁-节点耦合模型。该方法通过建立节点位移约束关系与刚度集成策略,在严格保证运动学协调性的基础上,实现了对高阶模态耦合行为的高效表征。数值算例表明,所建模型能够以显著优于传统梁模型的精度预测结构的动力学响应:在非刚性连接结构细化区域的自由振动分析中,前9阶固有频率预测误差分别不超过10%;在瞬态响应分析中,与三维壳模型结果高度一致。此外,该模型单元数量仅为壳模型的1%左右,计算效率显著提升,在轻量化薄壁结构的概念设计与参数优化阶段表现出良好的工程应用价值。
[2] Baotian Chang,Shenglan Xiao,Dongli Li ,等.Quantifying pathogen exposure variability from surface contacts with force-dependent transfer models[J].Journal of Environmental Management,2026,397 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Transfer rate is critical in fomite transmission and highly dependent on surface material and touch force. However, the wide variability of touch force across individuals and surfaces is often overlooked, limiting the accuracy of existing models. In this study, we developed a force-dependent transfer model combining lab measurements with behavioral data from office surfaces. Transfer rates were experimentally quantified across multiple surface materials under varying force levels. Touch force was collected across 15 surfaces and 2584 surface contacts were recording via computer vision (93.4 % accuracy) in an office environment. Pathogen simulations comparing variable and fixed transfer rates showed exposure differences ranging from 86.0 % to 207.7 %, revealing significant underestimation or overestimation when force variability is ignored. These findings highlight the physiological relevance of incorporating touch force into transfer modeling and underscore its importance in accurately capturing exposure heterogeneity in fomite transmission.
[3] Beiyu Wu,Tong Qiu,Xiangsheng Chen ,等.Interfacial force transfer mechanism of multi-hole closely-spaced prefabricated underground structures[J].Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology,2026,168, Part 2 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In multi-hole closely-spaced structures in urban rail transit, there exists the issue of unclear interfacial force transfer mechanisms, and the mechanical behaviors differ significantly from those of traditional continuous structures. Combined with the closely-spaced pipe jacking project of Shenzhen Metro Line 12, this study proposes a new hole-assembly effect analysis method. First, the deformation characteristics of different interfaces were analyzed. Next, the force transfer efficiency of assembly modes was quantified by relating the upper load to structural deformation. Finally, through mechanical deformation analysis of the interfaces, the relationship between interfacial force transfer efficiency and structural flexural performance was verified. This method aims to systematically reveal the force transfer mechanism dominated by discontinuous deformation at closely-spaced interfaces. The results show that: (1) The closely-spaced interface forms cavities due to normal separation and tangential sliding, leading to an 89% reduction in contact area, and the flexural performance of the interface is only 65.89% that of the continuous structure; (2) The soil-included layer in the closely-spaced structure undergoes successively vertical contraction, tangential sliding, lower interface detachment, thereby affecting the force transfer path; (3) The horizontal distance of the lower interface is a critical factor influencing force transfer efficiency (contributing 69.8%), while the vertical distance has a weaker impact (only 3.14%). The research findings provide theoretical support and technical references for the optimized design, risk control, and engineering application of multi-hole closely-spaced structures.
[4] Ji, Jianyi,Huang, Shiping,Huang, Kunhong .Wave-Based Analysis of Force Transfer in Beam-Cable-Coupled Structure Subjected to Arbitrary Impact Load[J].International Journal of Structural Stability and Dynamics,2026,WORLD SCIENTIFIC PUBL CO PTE LTD
摘要：To model force transmission with time-delay effects in beam-cable coupled structures under arbitrary impact loading, a novel analysis method based on traveling wave characterization, termed WLTM, is proposed. By employing innovative shape functions to simulate impact load propagation, this method requires that degrees of freedom be defined only at structural joints, thus enabling accurate results with just a single element per member, even while fully accounting for force transmission through elements with distributed mass. To ensure broad applicability, a beam-cable coupled structure incorporating strain-rate-dependent damping is proposed, and the explicit expression for structural nodal forces is formulated as a unified formulation for arbitrary external loads. These expressions characterize the force transfer behavior of structures comprising multiple load paths as a superposition of concise local traveling wave components at each node. Four typical joint types in beam-cable coupled structures are considered, for which normalized local force vectors are constructed and assembled into a global force vector corresponding to the overall load transfer path of the structure. Furthermore, a normalized transfer path length is introduced to quantitatively evaluate the time-delay effects, incorporating the combined influence of sectional stiffness and path geometry on structural force transfer behavior. Experimental tests are conducted to validate the rationality of representing structural force transmission via a traveling waves model. Case studies demonstrate that the computational efficiency of the WLTM is significantly higher than that of the FEM, as only degrees of freedom at nodes are required. The force transfer efficiency is shown to substantially influence impact force distribution within coupled structures. The time-delay effect is inversely related to both the dynamic stiffness and the load proportion of the path. Higher vehicle speeds result in a greater propo
[5] Weijia Li,Yijie Zhuang,Jiajing Wang ,等.Evolution of vortex modes and heat transfer in metal foam/nanoparticles composite phase change materials under the combined action of centrifugal force and magnetic field[J].International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer,2026,255, Part 2 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study systematically investigates the heat transfer, energy storage characteristics, and vortex mode transformation mechanism of non-Newtonian nano-enhanced phase change materials (NEPCM) in metal foam. A three-dimensional numerical model based on the enthalpy-porosity method, Darcy-Forchheimer model, and local thermal non-equilibrium model was established and verified by experiments. Key parameters including nanoparticle mass fraction (<span class="math"><math><msub is="true"><mstyle is="true" mathvariant="normal"><mi is="true">Φ</mi></mstyle><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">w</mi><mi is="true">t</mi></mrow></msub></math></span>), Rayleigh number (Ra), centrifugal force (<span class="math"><math><msub is="true"><mi is="true">F</mi><mi is="true">C</mi></msub></math></span>), and Magnetic number (Mn) were focused on to examine their effects on the melting heat transfer process of NEPCM. The results indicate the following: At higher Ra (10<sup>5</sup>), natural convection dominates heat transfer, and the effect of adding nanoparticles on enhancing heat transfer and energy storage is relatively insignificant. At Ra = 10<sup>4</sup>, the direction of centrifugal force achieves intervention in the evolution of the melting front as well as heat transfer and energy storage by changing the magnitude and direction of buoyancy. The coupling effects of centrifugal force and magnetic field cause the original radial flow of the fluid to deflect, resulting in the evolution from transverse vortexes to vertical vortexes. The study focuses on two typical vortex modes corresponding to centrifugal forces of - 5 g (quasi-vertical vortex) and - 1 g (fully vertical vortex) at Ra = 10<sup>4</sup> and Mn = 8 × 10<sup>6</sup>. Finally, a vortex mode distribution diagram regulated by Ra-Mn-<span class="math"><math><msub is="true"><mi is="true">F</mi><mi is="true">C</mi></msub></math></span> is constructed, and four vortex modes are revealed. The study aims to provide theoretical basis for
[6] Zhu, Jianxu,Zhao, Dingxuan,Chen, Hao ,等.Nonlinear force transfer characteristic analysis of active suspension for emergency rescue vehicles[J].Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers,Part C: Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science,2025,239 (7):2667-2677,SAGE PUBLICATIONS LTD
摘要：This paper presents a nonlinear force transfer model for active suspension. First of all, according to the motion analysis of Mcpherson suspension, the force transfer characteristics between the three-dimensional force on tire contact point and the output force of suspension cylinder was studied. Then the friction force between the piston rod and the cylinder body was analyzed. Combined with the force transfer characteristics and the friction force, the nonlinear force transfer model was established which expressed the relationship between the pressure of cylinder cavities and the three-dimensional force at the tire contact point. Finally, the test is carried out on the three-axis emergency rescue vehicle, and the results show that, compared with the simplified active suspension model the ME and RMSE values of the force transfer model are reduced by 93.97%, and 78.31%, respectively. The nonlinear force transfer model can provide more accurate data support for the operation and control of active suspension system.
[7] Nan Zhang,Duzhou Chen,Qifa Gao ,等.Heat transfer characteristics of metal foam based composite phase change material incorporated in latent heat sink units of different aspect ratios under variable force fields[J].Journal of Energy Storage,2026,145 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：As aerospace heat loads increase, metal foam composite phase change material (CPCM) heat sinks offer a promising solution for compact and efficient thermal management systems (TMS). Their performance is influenced by variable force fields and latent heat sink unit (LHSU) scale. This study examines the effect of LHSU aspect ratio (AR) on the heat transfer characteristics of CPCM under different force fields (0 g, 5 g, −5 g). The results show that the proportion of convective heat transfer increases significantly with AR in 0 g and -5 g, from 3 % to 30 % in 0 g and from 19 % to 46 % in -5 g. In 5 g, convection is restricted by the force field rather than AR. In terms of temperature control, with a temperature limit of 90 °C, the temperature control duration extends with increasing AR in 0 g and -5 g. However, in 0 g, the proportion of ineffective CPCM for temperature control rises with AR, reaching up to 32 %. In 5 g, increasing AR fails to extend the temperature control duration and instead increases heat sink redundancy. This study provides references for the optimization design of TMS under variable force fields.
[8] Wang, Guilian,Zhang, Hanxiao,Chai, Qing ,等.A prediction model for normal cutting force in ultrasonic-assisted inner-diameter cutting based on transfer learning[J].The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology,2026,SPRINGER LONDON LTD
摘要：Ultrasonic vibration-assisted inner-diameter (ID) sawing (UVAIDS) is a highly efficient and precise cutting technique used to slice crystal ingots into wafers. The normal cutting force during the UVAIDS process is a key factor affecting machining quality and serves as an important basis for predicting machining quality and optimizing process parameters. This study established a transfer learning-based back-propagation (TL-BP) neural network model to accurately predict the normal cutting force during the UVAIDS. Firstly, a BP neural network prediction model for the normal cutting force during UVAIDS was established using a dataset derived from a theoretical model. Subsequently, a transfer learning strategy was employed to fine-tune the BP neural network prediction model based on a small amount of experimental data, resulting in the development of a TL-BP prediction model for the normal cutting force during UVAIDS. Experimental results show that the prediction accuracy of the TL-BP model established in this study reached 94.33%, representing improvements of 7.82% and 4.42% over the prediction accuracy of the traditional theoretical model and the BP model, respectively. This study achieved accurate prediction of the normal cutting force in the UVAIDS process using a small number of experimental samples through transfer learning, providing reliable technical support for the intelligent optimization of UVAIDS process parameters for hard and brittle materials such as single-crystal silicon.
[9] Romanetz, Leo,Gish, Melissa K.,Aubry, Taylor J. ,等.Photoinduced electron-transfer distance is controlled by the driving force in solid-state organic donor-acceptor systems[J].Nature Chemistry,2026,18 (5):949-958,NATURE PORTFOLIO
摘要：Understanding how short-range electron transfer generates photocurrent in organic solar cells and what photochemical driving force is needed to maximize efficiencies has been an immensely difficult problem. Here we show how these questions are intertwined: the driving force controls the average charge-transfer distance, skipping the shortest-range states in the optimal case. Using photoinduced absorption-detected magnetic resonance, we measure average charge-separation distances in dilute donor-acceptor blends as a function of driving force, and compare these with free charge yields measured by time-resolved microwave conductivity. We find that the largest driving forces show the shortest charge-separation distances, explaining their suppressed free-carrier generation. These results support a long-range electron-transfer model, wherein the driving force controls the initial delocalization of the electron-hole pair. The minimum driving force required for efficient charge separation (and minimal voltage losses) is ultimately set by the dielectric constant of the material.
[10] Shan Wang,Yu Gao,Minli Zhang ,等.Integrated vertical force transfer structure for high-performance MEMS-based array piezoresistive tactile sensor[J].Surface and Coatings Technology,2025,497 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In the design of a MEMS-based array piezoresistive tactile sensor, the force transfer structure is the key component for efficiently transmitting the force to the sensitive element. In order to reduce the sensitivity and linearity loss of the tactile sensor caused by traditional force transfer structures, a novel force transfer structure is proposed in this paper, which consists of a PDMS film, an array of rectangular micropillars, and a force-acting platform. The sensitive element of the tactile sensor is located between the force transfer structure and the glass substrate, forming a sandwich tactile sensor structure. Verified by simulations and experiments, the sensitive element with the proposed force transfer structure exhibits a good linearity (0.9998) and owns a similar performance to direct applying force on the sensitive element, the sensitivity is 0.0250 V/N.
[11] Zhidong Xia,Chen Zhao,Peng Fu .Analytical force–electrical transfer function for flexible capacitive sensors with differential dielectric architectures[J].Sensors and Actuators A: Physical,2026,406 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Flexible capacitive sensors (FCSs) are widely used in wearable electronics and human–machine interaction, yet their force–electrical responses are often described only by numerical simulation or empirical calibration. In this work, an analytically simplified force–electrical transfer function is developed for FCSs with differential dielectric architectures based on a CNT/PDMS conductive silicone rubber dielectric. The model combines a Yeoh hyperelastic constitutive description, a stress-dependent permittivity relationship, and sequential mechanical–electrostatic finite element analysis to establish a continuous pressure–capacitance response within 0–100 kPa. The simplified transfer function agrees closely with FEA results (<em>R</em>² &gt; 0.999), while the experimentally measured capacitance responses show good agreement with the model (<em>R</em>² &gt; 0.95, <em>NRMSE</em> &lt; 8%). The model further predicts a near-optimal differential ratio around 25%, and the fabricated 26% structure exhibits the strongest response among the tested configurations, demonstrating the utility of the proposed model for model-guided sensor design. In addition, the fabricated FCS shows a fast response time of 0.1 s and stable performance over more than 6000 cycles. Demonstrations on the finger, hip, and plantar regions further confirm its applicability for practical human-contact pressure sensing.
[12] Noggler, Mariah,Rahaman, Shawonur,Wang, Yuhong ,等.Force-Forster Resonance Energy Transfer Correlation Microscopy: A Multimodal Approach for the Study of Single-Nucleotide-Resolution Ribosome Translocation[J].ChemBioChem,2026,27 (7),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：Force spectroscopy and F & ouml;rster resonance energy transfer (FRET) are both widely applicable techniques for biomolecular research. Each has its own advantages and also limitations, such as the interference of nonspecific binding for force spectroscopy and difficulty in obtaining single-nucleotide resolution for FRET. Here, we show a multimodal method of force-FRET correlation (FFC) microscopy to offer single-nucleotide resolution at single-molecule level while eliminating the interference of nonspecific interactions. This technique uses both magnetic and fluorescent labeling and employs two mechanical forces with different forms and amplitudes. Molecular specificity was achieved via the combination of removing nonspecific interactions and establishing force-FRET colocalization. High molecular resolution was obtained by applying precisely controlled acoustic forces on the intermolecular bonds. We have applied FFC microscopy for ribosome translocation study to demonstrate its capability for investigating complex biological functions. With high molecular resolution and straightforward implementation, our technique has the potential of broad applications in biochemistry and biophysics.
[13] Zhang, Bing,Zhu, Xinqun,Li, Jianchun .Truncated Transfer Matrix-Based Regularization for Impact Force Localization and Reconstruction[J].Sensors,2025,25 (18):5712,MDPI
摘要：Civil infrastructure, such as bridges and buildings, is susceptible to damage from unforeseen low-speed impacts during service. Impact force identification from dynamic response measurements is essential for structural health monitoring and structural design. Force identification is an ill-posed inverse problem, and the regularization technique is widely used to solve this problem using a full transfer matrix. However, existing regularization techniques are not suitable for large-scale practical structures due to the high computational cost for the inverse calculation of a high-dimensional transfer matrix, and impact excitation locations are often unknown in practice. To address these challenges, a novel two-step truncated transfer matrix-based impact force identification method is proposed in this study. In the first step, a sparse regularization-based technique is developed to determine unknown force locations using modal superposition. In the second step, the full transfer matrix is truncated by time windows corresponding to short durations of impact excitations, and a Tikhonov regularization-based technique is adopted to reconstruct the time history of impact forces. The proposed method is verified numerically on a simply supported beam and experimentally on a 10 m steel-concrete composite bridge deck. The results show that the proposed method could determine the impact locations and reconstruct the time history of impact forces accurately. Compared with existing Tikhonov and sparse regularization methods, the proposed method demonstrates superior accuracy and computational efficiency for impact force identification. The robustness of the proposed method to noise level and the number of modes and sensors is investigated. Experimental studies for both single-force and multiple-force localization and identification are conducted. The results indicate that the proposed method is efficient and accurate in identifying impact forces.
[14] Jinhong Noh,Pilkee Kim,Yong-Jin Yoon .Asymmetric bistable shock isolators for repeated force-transfer nullification using optimal payload return[J].Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing,2025,225 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In this study, we propose an asymmetric bistable shock isolator (BSI) based on a new concept of repeated force-transfer nullification. The asymmetric BSI, with one potential well deeper than the other, benefits from symmetry breaking in its double-well potential dynamics, offering improved shock isolation when compared with a mirror-symmetric BSI. The proposed system operates near a nullcline, where force transfer to the protected platform is nullified, leading to significantly reduced shock transmissibility and slow, small intrawell oscillations. Additionally, the asymmetric BSI can accommodate mistuned shock inputs, offering a practical design margin. However, the superior isolation performance observed under the first shock does not persist in subsequent shocks, owing to payload escape. After the initial shock, following the nullcline causes the payload to escape from the deep potential well and become trapped in the shallow potential well. This escape alters the initial conditions of the payload for a subsequent shock and prevents repeated force-transfer nullification. To overcome this limitation, we further propose a payload-return mechanism that employs a haversine base motion and leverages symmetry-broken dynamics. By restoring the initial conditions, this mechanism enables repeated force-transfer nullification. The optimal payload-return condition is identified for minimizing force transfer during the return process, and it exhibits robustness against deviations from the optimal haversine signal, offering an additional design margin. Experimental verification confirms the effectiveness of the proposed asymmetric BSI in achieving repeated force-transfer nullification with the optimal payload-return mechanism.
[15] Bing Zhang,Xinqun Zhu,Zihao He ,等.Partial transfer matrix-based group sparse regularisation for impact force localization and reconstruction[J].Journal of Infrastructure Intelligence and Resilience,2025,4 (3),Elsevier Science
摘要：Existing methods for impact force identification are based on full transfer matrix. Constructing and using transfer matrices can be computationally intensive, especially for large-scale complex structures in practice. Partial transfer matrix refers to a subset of the full transfer matrix, potentially reducing computational cost and complexity. In this paper, a partial transfer matrix-based group sparse regularisation method is proposed for the impact force localization and reconstruction. Its robustness and adaptivity with respect to different subsets of full transfer matrix, noise level and number of impact forces are numerically studied using impact forces on a simply supported beam. The number of sensors for impact force identification can be significantly reduced by the proposed method and its localization and time history reconstruction can be determined even with one single sensor configuration. A 10 m long steel-concrete composite bridge model is built in the laboratory. The effectiveness of the proposed method for impact force identification is validated and compared with <em>L</em><sub>1</sub>-norm and <em>L</em><sub>2</sub>-norm regularisation methods numerically and experimentally. Results show that the proposed partial transfer matrix-based group sparse regularisation method has good robustness and identification accuracy and has better performance on the impact force localization and time history reconstruction comparing with <em>L</em><sub>1</sub>-norm and <em>L</em><sub>2</sub>-norm regularisation methods.
[16] Jedari Salami, Sattar .Improved high-order bending analysis of sandwich beams with bilinear elasto-plastic core by considering full stress and displacement compatibility at interfaces[J].Acta Mechanica,2024,235 (8):5329-5355,SPRINGER WIEN
摘要：Full stress/displacement compatibility conditions at interfaces by considering the bilinear elasto-plastic core are investigated for the first time. The paper uses the concepts of the improved high-order sandwich panel theory (IHSAPT) and generalizes the approach to account for the bending response based on the unique mechanism of geometrical and material nonlinearity. The analytical results of the model are presented and compared with the experimental results. Emphasis is placed on satisfying shear stress compatibility conditions at the interface along with the effects of the plastic modulus of the core to provide a unique perspective on the bending response of sandwich panels. The results of the present approach are in good agreement with experimental results in terms of load-displacement, including the localized effects attributed to the flexible core. It is also shown that the present model can identify and quantify the localized effects of shear stress continuity at interfaces while conventional high-order sandwich panel models available in the literature fail to do so. The results of the study contribute to the effects of shear and normal plastic modules of the core on transverse normal and shear stress distributions at top and bottom interfaces, stress and displacement components through the thickness of the core as well as the force and moment resultants, and transverse displacements in the face sheets, which may be used as benchmark results for future studies.
[17] Wang, Meng-Xuan,Yu, Ying-Jie,Chen, Xiang-Yan ,等.Strain transfer mechanism and axial/radial force sensing technology for flexible shape sensors[J].Advances in Manufacturing,2026,SPRINGER
摘要：Shape reconstruction and force measurement of surgical diagnostic tools are crucial to ensure surgical safety. This study focuses on the strain transfer of an overall flexible fiber Bragg grating (FBG) shape sensor. A theoretical equation of strain transfer was established, with the fiber and bonding layers as the core structures. The response characteristics of the fibers under axial and radial forces were investigated. Through finite element simulations, the strain values of the bonding and fiber layers were analyzed and compared with the theoretical values to determine the influence of the bonding layer thickness, elastic modulus, encapsulation length, and Poisson's ratio on the strain transfer. A 260-mm-long, 2-mm-diameter, substrate-free FBG shape sensor was encapsulated, and axial/radial force sensing experiments were conducted to verify the theoretical force-wavelength change model. Additionally, shape reconstruction experiments were performed on a flat surface, achieving a 3.68% shape reconstruction accuracy. In surgical diagnosis and treatment, this research enables doctors to monitor the in vivo status of surgical tools and their interactions with tissues in real time, thereby preventing tissue damage, enhancing surgical safety and precision, and laying a theoretical foundation for the quantitative analysis of nociceptive perception in medical endoscopic diagnosis and treatment.
[18] Chun Huang,Shujie Lu,Chongcong Tao ,等.Simulation-informed transfer learning with dynamic weighted graph neural networks for impact force reconstruction[J].Applied Mathematical Modelling,2026,156 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Impact force reconstruction plays a crucial role in computational mechanics and structural health monitoring, where accurate identification of dynamic force is essential for reliability assessment and failure prevention. However, most data-driven neural network approaches require large experimental datasets, which are costly and often infeasible to obtain for real-world structures. To address this challenge, this study develops a simulation-informed, data-driven framework that integrates transfer learning with a Dynamic Weighted Graph Neural Network architecture. A high-fidelity finite element model, representing the source domain with consistent structural and modal properties, is employed to generate abundant synthetic data for pre-training. The pre-trained network is then adapted to the target experimental domain with scarce measurements using specific fine-tuning strategies, bridging the discrepancy between simulation and experiment. Beyond reconstruction accuracy, the study investigates the mechanistic role of transfer learning. Symmetric Kullback-Leibler divergence is used to quantify feature distribution shifts across domains, while Fourier analysis interprets the frequency-dependent behavior of convolutional-extracted features. Results demonstrate that the proposed framework not only reduces peak reconstruction errors by &gt;60% but also reduces prediction variance by nearly 20-fold compared with direct training on limited experimental data, confirming its ability to overcome severe overfitting. Moreover, the mechanistic analysis reveals that the optimal strategy involves fine-tuning local feature-extraction layers to adapt to target-domain signal characteristics, while preserving the robust, pre-trained global topological knowledge from the graph network. This work highlights how combining simulation-based modeling with data-driven learning enables robust and interpretable impact force identification under realistic data constraints.
[19] Niu, Guowei,Zhang, Ming,Yang, Yanbo ,等.A Hot Rolling Full Process Rolling Force Prediction Method Based on Transfer Learning and Inception-LSTM Neural Network[J].ISIJ International,2025,65 (1):97-103,IRON STEEL INST JAPAN KEIDANREN KAIKAN
摘要：A rolling force prediction method based on transfer learning and Inception-LSTM neural network is proposed to address the problem of low efficiency in predicting rolling forces for individual rolling mill stands due to the complex rolling conditions and distribution differences in the collected process data. The Inception-LSTM neural network combines the spatial feature extraction of the Inception model and the time sequence modeling capability of the LSTM network to comprehensively capture the features in the rolling process, thus establishing a baseline prediction model. Then, the transfer learning method is employed to transfer part of the parameters and structure of the baseline prediction model to the new prediction model. Simultaneously, the model is fine-tuned to establish a new transferred model for rolling force prediction, which is compared and analyzed against the neural network prediction model without using transfer learning. Experimental results show that the model built with transfer learning is higher fitting accuracy than the model built directly for rolling force prediction, and the training time of the model is significantly reduced. It can be used for steel shape and thickness control and digital twin simulation of rolling process.
[20] Georgievskii, D. V. .Compatibility of Deformations and the Thrice Differentiability of the Displacement Field[J].Mechanics of Solids,2024,59 (2):731-733,PLEIADES PUBLISHING LTD
摘要：The question of the necessary class of smoothness of solutions to quasi-static problems in the mechanics of a deformable solid in terms of displacements is discussed. It is shown that in order for the equations of compatibility of deformations to become identities when substituting displacements into them, the existence of some third mixed derivatives of displacements is required. For a linearly elastic compressible isotropic elastic medium, a counterexample is given in which the displacement field, being a doubly differentiable solution to the boundary value problem for the system of Lam & eacute;equations in the entire domain, is not a solution to the problem in displacements at all points of this domain.
[21] Wang, Yiren,Xie, Yixin,Zhou, Wanzhi ,等.Bolt force transfer mechanism and design method of a special-shaped rigid flange (SSRF) joint under bending load[J].Construction and Building Materials,2026,509 ,ELSEVIER SCI LTD
摘要：This paper proposes a special-shaped rigid flange (i.e., SSRF) joint. To study the mechanical properties of SSRF joints under bending load, three sets of specimens were designed considering the connection angles theta (45 degrees, 60 degrees, and 75 degrees) between the flange plate and the steel tube. Through bending tests and the finite element method, the failure mode, load-displacement curve, opening deformation and strain development of SSRF joints were analyzed. Furthermore, the influence of connection angle theta and flange thickness t on bolt force transmission mechanism and rotation axis position was revealed through parameter analysis. It is found that the failure modes of SSRF joints are opening deformation and relative slip of flange plate. The opening deformation increases with the increase of theta, whereas the relative slip is inversely proportional to theta. Under the bending moment, SSRF joint bolts are subjected to tensile force and shear force. When theta is 60 degrees and 75 degrees, the bolts primarily bear tensile force, while the shear force is dominated when theta= 45 degrees. Specifically, the tensile force and shear force of the bolt decrease from the tensile region to the compressive region, maintaining a proportional relationship with the maximum-stress bolt b1. Based on the bolt force transfer mechanism, SSRF joints with 60 degrees <= theta <= 75 degrees are recommended for engineering application. In addition, the rotation axis position is insignificant with theta and t and is located between the second and third bolts on the compressive side. Finally, the design process of SSRF joints under bending load is proposed.
[22] Kanghui Lai,Xiaoni Qi,Dan Zhou ,等.Slosh-induced force of a partially filled capsule and its effect on the heat transfer[J].Journal of Energy Storage,2025,130 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A partially-filled energy storage capsule demonstrates unique flow dynamics and heat transfer characteristics, which necessitates deeper research attention. Using the fluid-structure interaction method, this study numerically examines the integral movement features and internal two-phase flow patterns of a capsule partially filled with water and undergoing acceleration by a constant external force. When the capsule accelerates, the liquid inside would sloshe due to the inconsistent movement between the liquid and capsule wall, with an extra force being induced and the resulting capsule acceleration being determined by the combination of external force and slosh-induced force. It is found that the frequency of slosh increases with the filling ratio but merely relies on the magnitude of external force. The peak slosh-induced force exhibits a non-monotonic trend with increasing volume filling ratio (30 % to 90 %), initially rising before declining, mirroring the trend observed in the free surface area. The slosh of the liquid strengthens the bulk mixing inside the capsule and thus can reduce the heat transfer resistance between the internal liquid and capsule wall. Compared to a stationary capsule, the transient and averaged heat transfer coefficients during acceleration can increase by as much as 37.2 % and 6.3 % respectively. This study can help design fluidization or rotary drum systems filled with capsules used for energy storage.
[23] Jeong, Jae Jun,Lee, Tae Gang,Nam, Sang Gyun ,等.Incorporating the Effect of Centrifugal Force into the Correlation for Saturated Flow Boiling Heat Transfer in a Helically Coiled Tube[J].Nuclear Technology,2025,211 (8):1875-1882,TAYLOR & FRANCIS INC
摘要：The flow in a helically coiled tube exhibits a unique characteristic due to the centrifugal force acting on the fluid, which generates a secondary flow perpendicular to the main axial flow. This phenomenon is known to enhance convective heat transfer in both single- and two-phase flows. To account for this effect in a boiling heat transfer correlation, a new dimensionless number, defined by the ratio of centrifugal force to gravitational force, was introduced in a previous study. That study suggested a correlation incorporating this dimensionless number. This work aims to improve on the previous correlation. In deriving the dimensionless centrifugal force number, the pitch of the helical tube was not considered in the previous work. By properly incorporating both pitch and helical diameter into the dimensionless number, the coefficients of the heat transfer correlation must also be adjusted. The modified correlation was evaluated using 617 steam-water experimental data points for boiling heat transfer in helically coiled tubes. The results indicate that the modified correlation shows better results in comparison with the previous one and other existing correlations in terms of the root-mean-square errors of the calculated heat transfer coefficients.
[24] Yang, Shili,Zhang, Yuanguo,Zhou, Yang ,等.Force-Transfer Mechanism Analysis of Steel-Concrete Joints in Railway Hybrid Girder Cable-Stayed Bridges[J].International Journal of Steel Structures,2025,25 (4):947-958,KOREAN SOC STEEL CONSTRUCTION-KSSC
摘要：The force-transfer mechanism of a steel-concrete joint (SCJ) in a railway hybrid girder cable-stayed bridge was analysed using model tests and nonlinear finite element analysis (FEA), and the influence of the main design parameters on the load transmission performance was determined. The FEA results were in good agreement with the test results. The SCJ behaved linearly up to even under 2.0 times the design load, and the safety factors of the concrete and steel were not less than 2.02 and 2.55, respectively. The SCJ exhibited excellent deformation performance. Approximately 33.0% of the axial force was transferred from the steel girder to the concrete girder through the rear bearing plate (RBP), indicating that the RBP played an important role in force transfer. The force transmission efficiency of the steel cabin segment was approximately 2.0 times greater than that of the insert segment. The relative slip distribution along the bridge was saddle-shaped with large ends and a small middle. The uneven coefficients of the force shared by the PBL connectors and shear studs were 0.45-4.17 and 0.17-3.15, respectively. The deformation of the RBP was more complex than that of the front bearing plate (FBP), and the perforated plates, longitudinal prestressed tendons and webs strongly influenced the deformation distribution of the RBP. A parameter analysis revealed that the shorter the SCJ was, the greater the force transferred by the bearing plates and the greater the shear force shared by the shear connectors were. The greater the height of the steel cabin was, the greater the proportion of axial force transmitted by both the FBP and RBP was. Decreasing the stiffness of the PBL connectors and shear studs increased the relative slip considerably.
[25] Huang, Kai,Wang, Guoping,Chen, Feifei ,等.Force-thermal coupling modeling of diesel engines based on multibody system transfer matrix method[J].Nonlinear Dynamics,2025,113 (14):17883-17902,SPRINGER
摘要：In complex engineering dynamics problems, multidisciplinary coupling is commonly encountered, such as the interactions between mechanical, thermodynamic, electrical, and other disciplines. Traditional single-discipline methods often fail to comprehensively solve these multidisciplinary coupling issues. To enhance the Multi-Body System Transfer Matrix Method (MSTMM) and make it applicable to the solution of multidisciplinary coupling problems, this paper presents a diesel engine force-thermal coupling modeling process based on MSTMM. It demonstrates how MSTMM can be applied to force-thermal coupling problems by combining it with governing equations of the thermodynamics field. A concise and effective method is provided by this process to describe and solve complex force-thermal coupling problems in diesel engines. In the force-thermal coupling model, the dynamics of the mechanical system interact with the thermodynamic process, achieving dynamic coupling between the two disciplines through coupled calculations. This method effectively reduces the complexity of constructing and solving high-order matrices equation. Through the comprehensive modeling and simulation analysis of an 8-cylinder V-type diesel engine, the effectiveness of MSTMM in force-thermal coupling applications is validated. The force-thermal coupling modeling based on MSTMM offers a new approach for solving multidisciplinary coupling problems.
[26] Uyeup Park,Yeon June Kang .Physics-guided neural network for force identification in component-based transfer path analysis[J].Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing,2026,250 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In component-based transfer path analysis (TPA), the accuracy of estimated results depends on the treatment of accelerance matrix inversion for equivalent force identification. However, the measured accelerance often exhibits significant uncertainty, even though it should satisfy the reciprocity condition, which substantially degrades TPA accuracy. Conventional regularization methods, which use uncertain accelerance, mainly focus on mitigating ill-conditioning without effectively resolving the problem. In this study, an innovative physics-guided neural network model was proposed to replace the conventional matrix inversion process in component-based TPA. The proposed model acts as a trainable version of TPA capable of compensating for uncertainties in nondriving-point accelerance. Its architecture is designed to identify the equivalent forces at the hidden layer, and tailored training strategies improve estimation accuracy. Physical information, such as the driving-point accelerance and noise transfer function, is incorporated into the model to preserve the physical characteristics of the system during training. In addition, the output layer is virtually expanded by exploiting the property that the equivalent forces remain invariant to modifications in the passive part stiffness, thereby improving the accuracy of the estimated forces. The proposed method was validated through a numerical simulation in which intended uncertainty was imposed on the known accelerance, and the estimated equivalent forces closely matched the references despite the uncertainty. Furthermore, the application of a road noise vehicle experiment revealed that the suggested neural network-based method surpasses conventional inversion-based methods in accuracy and offers a reliable framework for component-based TPA in practical applications.
[27] Wang, Cuihua,Sui, Jiaxu,Wang, Xinhao ,等.Vortex flow properties and enhanced heat transfer analysis of ferrofluid in a curved pipe under the coupling of magnetic field force and centrifugal force[J].Journal of Mechanical Science and Technology,2025,39 (1):399-407,KOREAN SOC MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
摘要：In this study, the flow and heat transfer characteristics of ferrofluid in a 90 degrees curved tube with an applied external magnetic field are numerically investigated based on the finite element method. The flow field structure, generation mechanism of secondary flow, and heat transfer enhancement effect of the magnetic nanofluid under the coupling effect of magnetic field force (formed by the applied magnetic field) and centrifugal force (formed by the curvature of the curved pipe) are analyzed. Results show that a low-intensity magnetic field may slightly inhibit the heat transmission of ferrofluid in a curved pipe. As the strength of the external magnetic field increases, an evident secondary flow with three pairs of primary vortices is observed on the cross section. The secondary flow destroys the boundary layer, intensifies fluid mixing, and enhances heat delivery of the bent pipe. Within the studied range, the heat transfer coefficient with an external magnetic field increases by a maximum of 58.8 % compared with that without an external magnetic field. Moreover, the influence of magnetic field on heat exchange is more pronounced within smaller Reynolds numbers.
[28] Kacprzak, Jakub,Mosler, Dariusz,Tsos, Anatolij ,等.Biomechanics of Punching-The Impact of Effective Mass and Force Transfer on Strike Performance[J].Applied Sciences,2025,15 (7),MDPI
摘要：Effective mass, the portion of an athlete's mass contributing to a punch, is a key biomechanical factor influencing punching strength in boxing. This study examines its relationship with punch mechanics, impulse dynamics, and body composition, identifying techniques that maximize effective mass and enhance force transfer efficiency. Thirty trained male boxers performed jab, cross, lead hook, and rear hook punches while punching force and limb acceleration were measured using an AMTI MC12-2K force plate and Noraxon Ultium EMG sensors. Effective mass was calculated as the ratio of peak force to fist acceleration at impact. Statistical analysis compared punching techniques and examined correlations with body composition and training experience. Straight punches (jab, cross) exhibited significantly higher effective mass than hooks (KW-H = 235.24;p < 0.001;eta(2) = 0.468), despite hooks generating greater peak forces. Cross punches had the highest effective mass (31.17 +/- 16.20 kg), followed by jabs (30.39 +/- 15.09 kg). No significant correlation was found between effective mass and body composition or training tenure, suggesting technique is more critical than absolute body mass. These findings highlight the importance of optimizing linear punch mechanics and impulse-to-acceleration synchronization in training to enhance effective mass transfer and striking performance.
[29] Yingjian Guo,Gregor Kosec,Lihua Wang ,等.A Transfer Learning method for deep drawing force prediction of sheet metal[J].European Journal of Mechanics - A/Solids,2025,114 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The deep drawing process involves complex deformations with highly nonlinear interactions among geometry, physics, and boundary conditions. Deep Drawing Force (DDF) refers to the force exerted by the punch on the sheet during forming and is essential for mechanical design and the prediction of failure modes such as wrinkling or fracture. This study proposes a data-driven transfer learning framework to predict DDF under various process conditions, where knowledge learned from analytically generated data is transferred to a model trained on limited numerical or experimental data, effectively reducing the data requirement while maintaining high prediction accuracy. The transfer learning in this work is entirely data-driven and relies on analytically generated data to pre-train a base model. Specifically, a large synthetic dataset is generated for pre-training using theoretical forming force equations based on the energy method. This base model is then fine-tuned using a small number of high-fidelity Finite Element Method (FEM) results that have been experimentally validated, finally, the prediction performance is evaluated by testing on unknown FEM data. The pre-trained knowledge is also transferred to tasks involving parts with different geometries, demonstrating strong generalization capability. Experimental results show that the transfer learning framework significantly improves prediction accuracy while reducing data requirements, offering an efficient and cost-effective solution for deep drawing process modelling.
[30] Jin, Xu-Yao,Chen, Yong-Chang,Hu, Jin-Cao ,等.Investigation of the effects of magnetic force on flow and heat transfer characteristics in turbulent jet impingement[J].Physics of Fluids,2025,37 (10),AIP Publishing
摘要：In this paper, a numerical study based on the magnetohydrodynamic model is proposed to investigate the effects of a magnetic field on the flow and heat transfer characteristics of jet impingement with the molten salt as working fluid. The magnetic field is transversely and uniformly applied on the jet impingement progress with Hartmann number from 0 to 200 at a given Reynolds number of 4000. The results show that the magnetic force significantly affects the velocity and turbulence intensity in the jet flow, thus resulting in very different heat transfer from that without magnetic field used. During the free jet, the velocity and turbulence intensity of molten salt vary along both directions parallel and perpendicular to the magnetic field, leading to continuous transformation of the cross-sectional area of jet under the effects of magnetic field. When the jet is approaching to the stagnation zone, the cross section of the jet can be radially stretched by the magnetic force. The phenomenon becomes more notable with high Hartmann numbers. Subsequently, it can be observed that local heat transfer of molten salt on the impinging surface displays a remarkable asymmetric state which differs from normal jet impingement. Although the heat transfer at stagnation point is slightly weakened, it can be enhanced around the wall-jet area, which, therefore, improves the uniformity of heat transfer in jet impingement. Present results are expected to provide deep understanding of jet impingement under magnetic field and an essential instruction for thermal management in applications of composite heat transfer technology.
[31] Taoning Zhu,Yu Ren,Huailong Shi ,等.Wheel-rail force inversion via transfer learning-based residual LSTM neural network with temporal pattern attention mechanism[J].Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing,2025,224 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：As urbanization progresses, metropolitan transit vehicles are encountering a growing frequency of curved pathways, which presents challenges pertaining to both the safety of the vehicles and the comfort of the passengers. There is no doubt that reliable acquisition of wheel-rail force is critical, since it has great significance for the safety and stability of vehicle operation. However, conventional wheel-rail force measurement methods are costly and difficult to use on in-service vehicles. A data-driven approach to inverting the wheel-rail force will overcome the above problems. In this work, a transfer learning-based residual long short-term memory neural network with temporal pattern attention mechanism (TPA-ResLSTM) is proposed to realize real-time monitoring of wheel-rail force, even in scenarios where the dataset is deficient in sufficient features. Initially, a learnable wheel-rail force inversion neural network model is developed based on the physical relationship that exists between the wheel-rail force and acceleration. Subsequently, a dynamic model for a B-type metro vehicle is utilized to simulate various scenarios, serving as a virtual source to provide data for the neural network. Afterward, the performance of the model is synthetically validated by the ablation study and field experimental data. Finally, the deep learning model is further improved by the transfer learning network, whose performance is comprehensively evaluated using limited data. The results show that the inversion model still has remarkable accuracy, in which the coefficient of determination is more than 0.9, under the case of limited training data. The proposed methodology diminishes the data requirements for the network while facilitating real-time monitoring and feedback regarding wheel-rail forces, thereby enhancing the realism of operational safety assessments for trains.
[32] Xiaoyi Wu,Zhibin Li,Jiaqi Yang ,等.Delineation of critical mass flux and thermal equilibrium quality: Heat transfer disparity in helically coiled tubes of different orientations under gravity/centrifugal force dominance[J].Energy,2026,351 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Helically coiled tubes (HCTs) are extensively employed in compact heat exchangers and high-parameter energy systems for superior thermal-hydraulic performance. However, orientation effects on boiling heat transfer remain insufficiently understood. This study conducted subcritical water flow boiling experiments in vertical and horizontal helically coiled tubes (VHCT and HHCT) under pressures of 8–14 MPa, mass fluxes of 375–1500 kg⋅m<sup>−2</sup>⋅s<sup>−1</sup>, and heat fluxes of 100–300 kW⋅m<sup>−2</sup>, and analyzed the flow-path-averaged heat transfer coefficient (<em>h</em><sub>avg</sub>). The results indicate higher <em>h</em><sub>avg</sub> in HHCT at low thermal equilibrium quality (<em>x</em>), whereas <em>h</em><sub>avg</sub> in VHCT approaches or exceeds that in HHCT as <em>x</em> increases. This disparity diminishes at high mass flux, with <em>h</em><sub>avg</sub> differences within 5.51%. To elucidate the observed heat transfer disparities, fluid dynamics analysis identified two critical parameters: the critical mass flux (<em>G</em><sub>cr</sub>), indicating whether differences exist in heat transfer between HCT orientations, and the critical thermal equilibrium quality (<em>x</em><sub>cr</sub>), representing the turning point in heat transfer evolution along the tube, thereby defining the flow boiling transition from gravity to centrifugal force (<em>F</em><sub>c</sub>) dominance. Numerical simulations reveal liquid accumulation in the lower section of the HHCT at low mass flux, while increasing the mass flux from 375 to 1200 kg⋅m<sup>−2</sup>⋅s<sup>−1</sup> increases liquid phase <em>F</em><sub>c</sub> by 11.3 times and results in <em>F</em><sub>c</sub>-dominated vapor-liquid phase distribution for both orientations. Further analysis of flow-path-averaged inner wall temperature identified <em>G</em><sub>cr</sub> and <em>x</em><sub>cr</sub>. These findings provide a scientific basis for HCT orientation effects on boiling heat transfer and guide arrangem
[33] Reed, Jalen,Schrader, Andrew,Delmar, Justin ,等.Heat Transfer Performance of Supercritical CO2 Under Variable G-Force[M],2026,American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Inc, AIAA
摘要：This study investigates the influence of gravitational force on the heat-transfer behavior of supercritical carbon dioxide (sCO₂) in compact heat-exchange systems. Understanding sCO₂ performance under changing gravitational force (g-force) is essential for thermal management technologies designed for extreme or rapidly varying environments, where compactness, high efficiency, and robust operation are required. Although sCO₂ is widely recognized for its advantageous thermophysical properties, the effect of dynamic g-forces on its heat-transfer characteristics remains insufficiently understood. To address this gap, an experimental campaign was developed using a rotating platform to generate controlled g-forces on flowing sCO₂. A secondary objective of this work is to evaluate the reliability of mass-flow measurement devices exposed to dynamic g-forces, as accurate mass-flow determination is critical for heat-transfer correlations and system design. Preliminary experiments comparing a Coriolis mass-flow meter with a Cox turbine volumetric flow meter show that the Coriolis device maintains accurate mass-flow readings even under dynamic g-forces, indicating its suitability for dynamic g-force applications. The findings from this work will support improved modeling of sCO₂ thermal behavior and provide a foundation for extending these insights to sCO₂-based zeotropic mixtures and designing next-generation heat-transfer systems intended for high-load, extreme-environment operation. Preliminary results have already suggest significant deviations from established heat transfer correlations for sCO₂ under normal gravity, and as the full experimental matrix is completed, the resulting data will further clarify how gravitational effects influence buoyancy driven convective heat transfer, flow stability, and system performance in supercritical CO₂ and sCO₂-based zeotropic-mixture thermal management systems. © 2025, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Inc, AIAA. All
[34] Afzal, Usman,Kumar, Maddina Dinesh,Ashique, Adnan ,等.Magnetohydrodynamics heat transfer rate under inclined buoyancy force for nano and dusty fluids: Response surface optimization for the thermal transport[J].Nanotechnology Reviews,2025,14 (1),DE GRUYTER POLAND SP Z O O
摘要：The aim of this study is to analyze the heat transfer rate under inclined buoyancy force for nano and dusty fluids by incorporating key parameters such as the Prandtl number, volume fraction, fluid interaction parameter for temperature, and fluid-particle interaction parameter for velocity in the presence of magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) effects. The investigation focuses on understanding how these parameters influence velocity and heat transfer behavior in a porous medium. Nano and dusty fluids are crucial for thermal systems, environmental regulation, and materials processing. Unlike previous studies, this work examines their combined effects and employs response surface methodology (RSM) for optimization. The governing nonlinear ordinary differential equations are derived via similarity transformations and solved using bvp4c in MATLAB. RSM is employed to analyze parametric effects and determine optimal conditions for heat transfer enhancement. Higher Local Grashof number increases flow rate but decreases heat transfer rate. MHD and porosity effects significantly impact velocity and temperature. Dust-fluid interactions affect boundary layer behavior and heat transfer rates. Dusty fluid interactions influence boundary layer thickness and heat transfer. Findings are applicable in heat exchangers, electronics cooling, and industrial furnaces. The study offers a foundation for hybrid nanofluids, time-dependent flows, and fractional modeling in future research.
[35] Xian, Zhanglin,Cheng, Hui .A Nodal Force Transfer Method Between Fluid-Structure Grids for Complex Surfaces[J].应用数学和力学,2025,46 (6):709-716,Editorial Office of Applied Mathematics and Mechanics
摘要：In the process of fluid-structure coupling analysis, it is necessary to use appropriate data transfer method to map the node load onto the structural grid. To meet the accuracy requirements of nodal force transfer on complex surfaces, a search algorithm based on the critical dihedral angle criterion and the maximum/mini- mum influence radius was proposed to determine the interpolation area on the surface. A 3D node force interpo¬lation method based on the principle of minimum potential energy was used to transfer node force data between 2 sets of calculation grids, the consistency of load distributions, resultant forces, and resultant moments after transfer was verified through numerical examples. © 2025, Editorial Office of Applied Mathematics and Mechanics. All rights reserved.
[36] Liu, Xin,Li, YueYang,Zhang, Xu ,等.FE study on the effect of heat transfer on cutting temperature and cutting force in heat-assisted cutting of superalloy Inconel 718 using coated tools[J].The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology,2025,138 (11-12):5625-5643,SPRINGER LONDON LTD
摘要：Nickel-based alloy is a kind of high-property material widely used in aerospace. However, this kind of material is difficult to process, this is an urgent problem in this research area. In order to improve its machinability, TiAlN, TiCN, Al2O3 coating tools were used for dry cutting under heat-assisted machining conditions in this study. The temperature transfer during cutting was analyzed considering cutting speed, coating thickness and thermal contact resistance. The heat transfer process between workpiece and tool is described intuitively by finite element analysis method. Through the analysis of the experimental results, it is found that the cutting heat transfer is inversely proportional to the thermal working temperature. This phenomenon can be attributed to an increase in temperature, which reduces the applied cutting force and thus weakens the contact within the chip-tool interface (CTF), resulting in reduced heat transfer capacity. This can be seen as a direct result of thermal fluctuations and their indirect effects on the exchange of mechanical energy during cutting. However, the presence of the coating can reduce the temperature transferred to the tool base. The results show that the coating can effectively reduce the tool base temperature and cutting force, the tool base temperature can be reduced by 35-45%, the cutting force can be reduced by about 5-12%, Al2O3 coating tool reduction is the most obvious, which can effectively protect the tool base material. The increase of thermally assisted machining temperature also effectively reduces the tool wear depth. TiCN-coated tools show better wear resistance in all aspects, and the wear depth can be reduced by 11.6% when the thermally assisted machining temperature is 600 degrees C.
[37] Lou, Jiali,Zhou, Shenghua,Wei, Jiamin ,等.Anisotropic Outward Force-Induced Construction of 2D Monolayered Macroporous Fe-N-C Catalysts with Enhanced Mass Transfer for Efficient Oxygen Reduction[J].Advanced Functional Materials,2026,36 (8),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：While micropores can effectively accommodate Fe-N4 active sites for Fe-N-C catalysts, only those Fe-N4 sites near the external surface are efficiently utilized. Herein, geometry engineering is conducted on a N-doped graphene quantum dots (N-GQDs) derived 2D monolayered macroporous carbon nanosheet-based Fe-N-C catalyst (Fe-MaPCS) to enhance its catalytic performance. The unique 2D monolayered carbon nanosheet, favorable for electron and mass transfer, is initially achieved by pyrolyzing a 2D Fe3+/N-GQDs hybrid precursor. Subsequently, anisotropic outward force-induced pore engineering triggers the creation of interconnected macropores, significantly enlarging the external surface area and enabling the high accessibility of micropore-hosted Fe-N-4 sites. The unique 2D macroporous architecture of the optimized Fe-MaPCS-100 is crucial for facilitating mass transfer, leading to remarkable oxygen reduction reaction performance with a half-wave potential of 0.904 V versus. RHE, significantly surpassing its micropore-dominated counterpart (Fe-MiPCS). Molecular dynamics simulations further confirm that the oxygen flow velocity in Fe-MaPCS-100 is 3.4 times higher than that of Fe-MiPCS, consistent with the distribution of relaxation time analysis and calculated results, thereby validating the enhanced mass transfer efficiency by the 2D macroporous architecture.
[38] Yuanji Li,Haizhi Luo,Liu Lu ,等.Condensation heat transfer and droplet departure characteristics under electric force with leaky dielectric assumption[J].International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer,2026,256, Part 3 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：To further improve the condensation heat transfer, the electric field is actively imposed to accelerate the detachment of the condensation droplets from the cold wall surface. In this paper, the research is conducted through the coupling of the pseudopotential model and the leaky dielectric model. By comparing the condensation heat transfer with and without the action of electric field, the detachment enhancement of the electric field on the condensed droplets is confirmed. The electric field with intensity of 1.6<em>E</em><sub>0</sub> (<em>E</em><sub>0</sub> is the reference intensity for <em>Ca</em><sub>E</sub>=1) saves the droplet growth and departure period by 48.48 % compared with case without electric field. Subsequently, the influence of the liquid conductivity, permittivity and deformation numbers on the enhancement of detachment by electric field was studied. The results show that the greater the electric conductivity of the liquid, the smaller the permittivity of the liquid, or the greater the deformation number, the stronger strengthening effect of the electric field on condensation detachment. Subsequently, this paper reveals the relation among the departure diameter, the gravitational acceleration and the electric field intensity through force balance analysis. Lastly a correlation formula of the departure diameter was proposed for the first time, with an average relative deviation of 1.48 % and coefficient of determination <em>R</em><sup>2</sup> is 0.998.
[39] Yijian Wang,Xiaozhe Ju,Xing Chen ,等.Novel decoupling algorithm based on transfer learning for multi-axis force sensor[J].Sensors and Actuators A: Physical,2026,399 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Despite recent progress in decoupling algorithms for multi-axis force sensors, the high cost of high-fidelity (HF) calibration data severely limits dataset size, resulting in poor generalization in complex multi-axis loading scenarios. To address these challenges, a physics-informed transfer learning-based decoupling algorithm is proposed to reduce the dependence on HF multi-axis coupled calibration data. The proposed method comprises two primary parts. First, HF data are obtained from multi-axis coupled calibration experiments, while low-fidelity (LF) data are generated using a physics-based surrogate model derived via the Least Squares (LS) method. The LF dataset captures the first-order coupling characteristics of the sensor and serves as the source domain, whereas the HF dataset represents the target domain. Second, Bayesian Optimization (BO) is employed to identify optimal hyperparameters that ensure the network structure is commensurate with the nonlinear coupling complexity of the sensor. A fully connected neural network is pre-trained on the LF dataset to encode low-order coupling mechanisms and subsequently fine-tuned using the HF dataset to compensate for higher-order nonlinear effects. Compared with LS, Extreme Learning Machine (ELM), and Artificial Neural Network (ANN), the proposed method achieves superior accuracy, reaching an RRMSE of 0.009 with error reductions of 60.9 %, 30.7 % and 40 % under identical calibration data conditions. Moreover, the proposed method substantially reduces the reliance on HF calibration data, achieving accuracy comparable to ELM and ANN trained with approximately 200 and 250 samples using only 100 HF samples.
[40] Ganchev, Krasimir .Determination of the Theoretical Digging Force of Hydraulic Excavator Using Transfer Functions of Manipulator Drive Mechanisms[J].SSRG International Journal of Mechanical Engineering,2025,12 (1):83-88,Seventh Sense Research Group
摘要：Determining the theoretical digging force of the manipulator of the hydraulic excavator is a very important issue since it is а main characteristic of these machines. The arm and bucket drive mechanisms mainly determine the theoretical digging force. The hydraulic cylinders are included in the manipulator drive mechanisms of hydraulic excavators, i.e. they form the input force of these mechanisms. Thus, the driving mechanisms of the boom and the arm are of the type of Inverted Slider-Crank Mechanism (ISCM), and the driving mechanism of the bucket is the six-link mechanism of Watt type, composed of two sequentially connected mechanisms-ISCM and articulated Four-Bar Linkage (FBL). The proposed method uses transfer functions of the driving mechanisms to relate the input force to the output driving moment. The output moment accordingly drives the arm and the bucket, which forms the digging force of the excavator. Thus, the driving moment, resp. The type of transfer functions of the driving mechanism in dimensionless form completely describes the digging force. In the work, the transfer functions of the considered mechanisms are described, and typical diagrams of the driving moment of these mechanisms are attached, respectively of the theoretical digging force. © 2025 Seventh Sense Research Group®.
[41] Meng, Zheng,Zhang, Jianjun,Long, Haoyu ,等.Kelvin Probe Force Microscopy Reveals Spatially Resolved Charge-Transfer Mechanism in CdS/BiOBr S-scheme Heterojunction Photocatalyst[J].Angewandte Chemie - International Edition,2025,64 (30),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：S-scheme heterojunctions hold great promise for photocatalysis, yet a comprehensive understanding of their charge-transfer mechanisms remains limited. While time-resolved techniques have provided valuable insights, the spatial resolution of charge transfer at the material surface remains underexplored. Here, we employ Kelvin probe force microscopy (KPFM) to investigate the charge-transfer dynamics in S-scheme heterojunctions, revealing spatially resolved details. Our findings show that upon illumination, the Fermi level (Ef) of n-type semiconductors increases, but a built-in electric field (IEF) persists within the heterojunction. Electrons accumulate on the surface of the reduction semiconductor (RS), resulting in a surface photovoltage (SPV) lower than that of the individual semiconductor, while holes accumulate on the oxidation semiconductor (OS) surface, producing an SPV higher than that of the bare material. The S-scheme heterojunction leads to a remarkable increase in charge separation, with 11 additional photogenerated electrons and 3722 additional holes compared to the bare CdS and BiOBr. These results offer critical insights into the spatially resolved charge-transfer mechanisms of S-scheme heterojunctions.
[42] Ma, Rui,Liu, Gui-dong,Wang, Ling-ling ,等.Optical force modulated by the charge transfer plasmons[J].Applied Physics Letters,2025,126 (3),AIP Publishing
摘要：We have investigated the modulation of the trapping potential and trapping force provided by the graphene charge transfer plasmon (CTP) structure that supports two resonance modes. Both the screened bonding dipolar plasmon mode and the charge transfer plasmon mode greatly provide a strong trapping potential and trapping force. The position of the trapping potential well can be dynamically regulated by modulating the Fermi energy or the geometry of the charge transfer bridge, allowing for the dynamic trapping of the nanoparticles. The restricted Brownian motion trajectory of the nanoparticles near the structure indicates that both modes can achieve stable nanoparticles trapping. These two peculiar resonance modes could potentially open up additional possibilities for optical manipulation and particle sorting.
[43] Michael P. McGuire,Elise G. Hummel,Eric M. Hunstein ,等.User's Manual for GeogridBridge 3.0: A Guide to the Load Displacement Compatibility Method (LDC) for Design of Column-Supported Embankments[M],2024,American Society of Civil Engineers
摘要：Sponsored by the Geosynthetics Technical Committee of the Technical Coordination Council of the Geo-Institute of ASCEUser's Manual for GeogridBridge 3.0: A Guide to the Load Displacement Compatibility Method (LDC) for Design of Column-Supported Embankments details how to use the GeogridBridge 3.0 (GGB3) spreadsheet, which utilizes the Load Displacement Compatibility (LDC) method for the design of column-supported embankments (CSEs) and walks through two worked examples to illustrate the use of the spreadsheet. This book supplements Theory Manual for the Load Displacement Compatibility Method (LDC) for Design of Column-Supported Embankments, GSP 356, and other geotechnical resources and tools, listed within this manual, to assist engineers with the design and construction of column-supported *** include• Spreadsheet overview,• Spreadsheet inputs and outputs,• Monte Carlo simulation, and• Simple and complex worked *** manual intends to be an informed, continuously updated guide for geotechnical engineers and engineering professionals looking to incorporate the GGB3 spreadsheet into standard engineering practices regarding the design of column-supported *** access the GeogridBridge spreadsheet, go to https://***/10.17605/***/HQRBU. This will redirect to the OSF | GeogridBridge3.0 website.
[44] Ning Zhang,Xile Wang,Tianzihan Kong ,等.Pore-scale investigation on heat and mass transfer in gas diffusion layers of PEMFC coupled with clamping force[J].Fuel,2026,419 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Understanding the multi-physics transport behavior of gas diffusion layers (GDLs) under clamping force is essential for improving the performance and durability of proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs). In this study, a comprehensive pore-scale framework is developed to quantify the coupled effects of mechanical compression on GDL microstructure and transport properties. A stochastic numerical reconstruction algorithm is employed to generate GDL microstructure, followed by finite element method to capture compression-induced structural evolution. Pore-scale characterization reveals significant reductions in pore size with increasing compression. Based on the deformed structures, transport property demonstrate that compression enhances solid-phase transport property while substantially increasing flow resistance. A volume of fluid (VOF) model is further established to simulate non-isothermal two-phase flow within the realistic pore geometry. The results show that compression shifts the liquid–water invasion mode from channel-dominated breakthrough to a tortuous, diffusion-controlled pathway, leading to earlier breakthrough, reduced saturation, and more efficient drainage. Temperature coupling has limited influence on water distribution but noticeably affects thermal homogenization and drainage patterns. Overall, this work provides a pore-scale understanding of how clamping force regulates multi-physics transport in GDLs. The findings offer mechanistic insights for GDL structural optimization to enhance PEMFC performance and reliability.
[45] Xu, Wenkang,Yu, Zhiyang,Yang, Hongxiao ,等.Engineering Charge Transfer of MXene-Hybridized Photocatalysts: An In Situ Kelvin Probe Atomic Force Microscopy Study[J].Small,2026,22 (20),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：Functioning as nanoscale "conductors", 2D transition metal carbides (MXenes) orchestrate interfacial charge-carrier transport between semiconductors. This capability enables precision-engineered control over photocatalytic processes by regulating charge-carrier separation and migration dynamics. However, existing techniques inadequately resolve photogenerated carrier dynamics, hindering rational MXene photocatalyst design. This study addresses this limitation using in situ nanoscale imaging with Kelvin probe force microscopy (KPFM) on a model TiO2@MXenes system. We demonstrate that the charge transfer direction is governed by work function (W F) difference, allowing for utilizing MXenes as electron- or hole-accepter by tuning the work function of MXenes. Glycerol treatment increases surface & horbar;OH density, lowering MXene W F to 1.31 eV and strengthening hole-extracting electric fields. By doing so, Pt/TiO2 modified with low-W F MXenes, showing 70.7%-91.7% reduction in charge transfer resistance, displayed the electron-hole transport, which vastly outperforms the electron-electron transport mode. This work offers a quantitative design paradigm linking surface terminations to W F to carrier transport pathways for developing efficient MXene-based heterojunction photocatalysts.
[46] Hao, Huirong,Zhao, Wenchao,Yang, Ziming ,等.Application of the binary power transfer function of the internal force topology model in power machinery[J].振动与冲击,2025,44 (2):73-83and119,Chinese Vibration Engineering Society
摘要：With the constant development of lightweight power machinery, the mass ratio of the moving parts to the body increases, and consequently induces more obvious body vibration. In order to study the relationship between the natural frequency of the power machinery body and the internal mass ratio in the lightweight design, an experimental bench for simulating different mass ratios of power machinery was designed. Vibration tests were carried out under static and dynamic conditions, proving the existence of differences in the natural frequencies. The moving parts and the body were connected by the internal force, and the internal force topology model for the dynamic vibration isolation effect was established to interpret the difference in the natural frequency. The two-parameter dynamic transfer function relating to the mass and frequency ratios was derived, and the three-dimensional surface of the dynamic transfer function was analyzed from two angles of side view and top view. The results show that under the background of lightweight design, the natural frequency of the power machinery body drifts to the maximum value by the increase of mass ratio. The binary dynamic transfer function established can express the distribution characteristics of the natural frequency of the power machinery by virtue of the internal force model. It has better applicability, and provides a theoretical basis for the parameter identification and vibration isolators design of power mechanical systems. © 2025 Chinese Vibration Engineering Society. All rights reserved.
[47] Wang, Wei,Wang, Jun,Zeng, Xiuyuan ,等.Effects of center-to-center pitch of grouped studs on shear force transfer and deck separation of simply-supported steel-concrete composite bridges[J].Steel and Composite Structures,2025,55 (1):29-45,TECHNO-PRESS
摘要：The center-to-center pitch (CCP) of shear connectors is specified to not exceed 0.61m in the AASHTO LRFD bridge design specifications to guarantee full composite action between steel girder and concrete deck. However, larger CCP of grouped shear connectors is in need in accelerated bridge construction to enhance efficiency and lower cost. In this study, the effects of CCP of grouped headed studs on shear force transfer and deck separation of simply-supported steel-concrete composite bridges were quantitatively investigated based on the refined finite element method. A typical simply-supported steel-concrete composite bridge was designed based on the AASHTO LRFD code and modeled with the ANSYS. The accuracy of modeling skill was validated with published data. The HL-93 loading and fatigue design truck specified in the AASHTO LRFD code were adopted as design loading. The effects of three important parameters, including the diameter of headed studs, the CCP of grouped headed studs, and the arrangement of headed studs, on the shear force transfer and deck separation between steel girder and concrete deck were investigated. Results show that the three considered parameters have a coupling effect on the fatigue limit state and strength limit state of the bridge.
[48] Wang, Xiaohong,He, Xiaochun,Zhang, Xuemei ,等.Consecutive mechanical-force-induced electron transfer for reduction of aryl halides with high reduction potentials[J].Nature Communications,2025,16 (1):1-9,NATURE PORTFOLIO
摘要：Mechanical-force-induced redox catalysis has emerged as a green and expeditous approach in synthetic chemistry, relying on single-electron transfer from polarized piezoelectric materials to substrates initiated by mechanical agitation. However, the piezoelectric potential generated can sometimes be insufficient to activate the electron transfer process, similar to the limitations observed in photocatalytic reactions. In this work, we introduce a catalytic strategy employing a consecutive mechanical-force-induced electron transfer (ConMET) strategy. This strategy uses piezoelectric materials as mechanochemical redox catalysts with 9-phenyl-dihydroacridine as a sacrificial electron donor, enabling efficient consecutive electron transfer. Our method effectively reduces aryl iodides, bromides, and even electron-rich aryl chlorides, which possess reduction potentials as high as -2.8 V (vs. SCE), leading to the formation of aryl radicals. Ultimately, this strategy facilitates anti-Markovnikov hydroarylation of alkenes and dehalogenative deuteration of aromatic halides under mild conditions.
[49] Zhang, Zhuangzhuang,Li, Yueyue,Liu, Chang ,等.RAPID-RTX: A Novel Real-Time Radiative Transfer and Force Field Modeling Framework for Forest BRF Simulations[J].IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing,2025,63 ,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：3-D radiative transfer models (RTMs) have emerged as a crucial tool for quantifying uncertainties in remote sensing observations. However, the most current 3-D radiative transfer modeling is based on static scenes, which differ significantly from the dynamic facts of the real world. The UAV shadow and natural wind were also not considered in the previous 3-D RTM studies. These simplifications in the modeling caused uncertainties in the 3-D radiative transfer modeling. To improve the physical realism of 3-D radiative transfer modeling, enhancing the model capacity to dynamically simulate the radiative transfer process of forest scenes under physical disturbances in real-time is essential. This study proposed the radiosity applicable to porous individual (RAPID)-ray tracing xtreme (RTX), a novel real-time radiative transfer and force field modeling framework for the RAPID model based on the Universal Scene Description (USD) and RTX rendering technologies. To quantify the effects of UAV shadows and natural wind on UAV-observed forest bidirectional reflectance factors (BRFs), we used RAPID-RTX to simulate forest scenes with and without UAV shadows under multiple viewing angles, and to assess the impact of wind-induced tree movement. The results showed that the UAV shadows significantly impact forest BRF, especially at viewing directions near the hotspot direction. In the simple plantation scene, the maximum impact reached 83.9% in the red band and 73.7% in the near-infrared (NIR) band, whereas in the dense forest scene (Wytham Woods 2015), the maximum impact reached 51.5% and 40.6% in the red and NIR bands, respectively. To minimize the impact of UAV shadows on UAV-observed forest BRF, it is recommended that the sensor field of view (FOV) is larger than 5 degrees and the flight height is higher than 60 m. In addition, at wind speed levels 3 and 5 (4 and 10 m/s), the maximum wind impact on forest BRFs in the red band reaches 23.8% and 28.5%, respectively, while in the NI
[50] Julia Maciejewska-Komorowska,Karolina Peret,Marta Zaleskaya-Hernik ,等.Application of the oxidation reaction of a ferrocene derivative (FcSQC6) as driving force for the transfer of hydrophilic sulphate anions at a microemulsion three-phase electrode[J].Talanta,2026,298 (PT A),Elsevier Science
摘要：Studies at three-phase electrodes (TPE, glassy carbon electrode, an aqueous and organic solution) are often performed to detect organic and inorganic anions. However, it is difficult to find a redox probe or ionophore that would allow the transfer of highly hydrophilic sulphate ions. Recently, TPE studies of ion pair receptors consisting of a crown ether cation-binding site and a squaramide anion-binding domain have emerged, offering the ability to extract extremely hydrophilic sulphate salts. In this article, we show that we can induce sulphate anion transfer in a three-phase electrode system using the controlled oxidation reaction ferrocene grafted to a squaramide-based ion receptor in the organic phase. We evaluate this receptor for the transfer of sulphate ions and its selectivity towards other anions. The effect of the cation bound by the crown ether on the ion transfer potential to transfer across phase boundaries is shown. These measurements demonstrate the potential of applying ferrocene derivatives in ion-transfer voltammetry for the transfer and detection of highly hydrophilic anions.
[51] das Neves, Edvaldo Antonio,Andrade, Herlandi de Souza,de Lima, Araken Alves ,等.Application of Design Science Research in Brazilian Air Force Technology Transfer Processes[J].Journal of Aerospace Technology and Management,2026,18 ,INST AERONAUTICA & ESPACO-IAE
摘要：The objective of this article is to communicate the results of the study that formed the basis for the development of a method for commercializing technologies, developed by a Technological Innovation Center (TIC) responsible for the Scientific, Technological, and Innovation Institutions (STIs) of the Brazilian Air Force (FAB), brought together in the Aeronautical Innovation System (SINAER). It emphasizes the process of entering into licensing and technology transfer agreements, with an emphasis on those of interest to national defense. Its creation was conducted through Design Science Research (DSR), which is a rigorous process of designing artifacts to solve problems, evaluating what has been designed, and communicating the results obtained. The method proved to be effective in organizing the actions and competencies of each element involved in the negotiation and execution of contracts, fulfilling the objectives of the Ministry of Defense (MD) in transferring the technologies generated by its STIs, making it feasible to prescribe the solution found for the class of problems identified.
[52] Fujiwara, Kohei,Tsuyama, Tadahisa,Ogino, Yosuke ,等.Experimental study on the driving force for metal transfer control by using pulsed Ar addition in CO2 arc welding process – Studies on pulsed gas MAG welding–[J].QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF THE JAPAN WELDING SOCIETY,2025,43 (2):95-104,Japan Welding Society
摘要：‘Pulsed Gas MAG’welding process was proposed as a new approach to control metal transfer and reduce a spatter, in which a small quantity Ar gas pulses were periodically injected into CO2 shielding gas so that gas composition of arc atmosphere was largely modified in a very short time. The change in the arc atmosphere may causes a change in arc force and a pulse shaped increase in welding current, which could produce a driving force for the droplet to release. However, it has not been known yet which one of these is the main factor for molten droplet release in PGMAG welding. Thus, in this study, it was aimed to clarify this point. As a result of the experiment, It was shown that, if only the gas compositional change occurred, synchronous metal transfer was achieved even under the condition of constant welding current. On the other hand, in pulsed welding without the gas change in which the current waveform was simulated as that of PGMAG, the metal transfer was not synchronized with the current change. In addition, as a result of spectroscopy observation of arc plasma, it was observed that the outer edge of the arc plasma was formed by argon plasma when the arc shape was a flare type. It is considered that the temperature of this part is higher than that of the arc center, and this suggests that the arc force acting on the bottom surface of a droplet may decrease because the argon plasma formed at the outer edge of the arc becomes the main current path. In conclusion, it was experimentally shown that a reduction in arc force due to the change in current path has a major influence on droplet transfer control in this process, rather than the current rise. © 2025 Japan Welding Society. All rights reserved.
[53] Adam Kriz,Saeed Moghaddam .Characterization of inertia- and shear-induced instabilities of liquid films through analysis of wave evolution, energy transfer, and force balance[J].International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer,2026,256, Part 2 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Understanding the hydrodynamics of liquid films formed during microchannel flow boiling is essential for developing high-fidelity models that inform the design of high-performance heat sinks. To probe these dynamics, we performed two-phase adiabatic flow experiments spanning multiple channel sizes, fluids, and mass fluxes, enabling isolation of thin-film behavior and interrogation of instability mechanisms from a fluid-mechanics perspective. The experiments revealed two primary wave behaviors: solitary and periodic waves. Solitary waves, characterized by high velocity and amplitude, are driven by shear forces resulting from the velocity difference between the two phases. In contrast, periodic waves are slower, low-amplitude waves associated with inertial forces within the thin liquid film. Both wave types were found to be influenced by surface tension. A new long-wave evolution model, extending a previous wave growth model to incorporate inertia, successfully predicted the onset of periodic waves across various wavelengths. Additionally, an energy transfer model linked the growth of inertial and shear instabilities to the observed wave behaviors. These models demonstrated that unstable films grow due to both inertial and shear instabilities. New predictive metrics were developed based on force balance. For periodic waves, these metrics include the Weber (<em>We</em>) and Bond (<em>Bo</em>) numbers, while the Richardson (<em>Ri</em>) and <em>Bo</em> numbers are used for solitary waves. The study offers valuable insights into the interplay between inertia, shear forces, and surface tension in two-phase microchannel flow, providing improved analytical tools for predicting wave behaviors in liquid films.
[54] Yuhan Tang,Xingyao Dai,Junjie Zou ,等.Force-driven ionic transfer in dual-charge MXene membranes for self-powered linear pressure sensing[J].Journal of Materiomics,2026,12 (3),Elsevier Science
摘要：Traditional pressure sensors often lack the required linear characteristics in their force-electric transfer functions, which limits the practicality in numerous fields such as the Internet of Things (IoT) and artificial intelligence. This study has developed a self-powered pressure sensor based on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub><em>x</em></sub>-MXene membranes, which are modified with cellulose nanofibrils (CNF) and poly diallyl dimethyl ammonium chloride (PDDA) to create composite membranes with negative and positive charges. Owing to their two-dimensional nanofluidic channels and surface charge properties, these composite membranes can efficiently convert mechanical pressure into electrical signals. Notably, the output signals exhibit a linear relationship with applied pressure, significantly simplifying signal processing. To optimize the sensing performance, the nanofluidic channel structures of the composite membranes were fine-tuned to enhance the sensitivity and response speed. Furthermore, the influence of electrolyte concentrations on sensing performance, including detection range, sensitivity, and stability, was systematically investigated. Experimental results demonstrate that the sensor exhibits excellent linear response, high sensitivity, fast response/recovery times, good stability, and repeatability. This research not only provides new ideas for the design of self-powered sensors but also advances the application of 2D materials in the field of intelligent sensing.
[55] Liu, Yaru,Wang, Lei,Ng, Bing Feng .Multitask-Transfer-Learning Method for Random-Force Frequency Identification Considering Multisource Uncertainties[J].AIAA Journal,2025,63 (6):2345-2360,AMER INST AERONAUTICS ASTRONAUTICS
摘要：Accurate reconstruction of unknown external forces from measurable responses is critical for ensuring structural safety and minimizing maintenance costs of aircraft structures. This paper presents a novel multitask-transfer-learning method for random-force frequency identification that accounts for modeling and measurement uncertainties. A data-driven convolutional neural network (CNN) model is utilized to capture the relationship between the power spectral densities of external forces and measured responses, addressing the inherent ill-posedness of traditional model-driven force identification methods. To shorten the frequency-dependent training time in the full frequency domain, a transfer-learning strategy is implemented, fine-tuning hyperparameters from a CNN model trained at one source frequency to another target frequency. Furthermore, an iterative dimensionwise collocation method based on nonprobabilistic interval modeling is introduced to quantify the uncertain boundaries of external loads caused by multisource uncertainties. By incorporating a multitask-learning framework, the process of establishing CNN models for collocated samples is accelerated, reducing the computational effort for uncertainty quantification. The proposed method is validated through both numerical and experimental examples, demonstrating its accuracy, robustness, and computational efficiency for force identification in the full frequency domain, even under conditions of insufficient measurements, measurement noises, and material dispersions.
[56] Yang, Yongkang,Dong, Xinyu,Xiong, Ting .Drag Force and Heat Transfer Characteristics of Ellipsoidal Particles near the Wall[J].Water,2025,17 (5),MDPI
摘要：This study investigates the force and heat transfer characteristics of oblate spheroidal particles in gas-solid two-phase flows near walls, addressing the influence of particle orientation, shape, Reynolds number, and particle-wall distance. These factors are critical in industrial processes such as pneumatic transport and crop drying, as well as in natural phenomena. Utilizing the Euler-Lagrangian model and large eddy simulation (LES), we simulated flow fields and heat transfer under various conditions. The results indicate that at Re = 500, turbulence mitigates wall interference, leading to a 14.4% increase in the Nusselt number (Nu). Particle orientation plays a crucial role in heat transfer, with Nu decreasing by 20% at = 90 degrees due to restricted interstitial flow. A higher aspect ratio (Ar = 0.8) enhances heat transfer by 25% compared to a lower aspect ratio (Ar = 0.1). Additionally, increasing the particle-wall distance from H = 0.25dv to H = 0.5dv reduces wall-induced drag by 30%. The findings enhance the understanding of particle-fluid interactions near walls, providing a foundation for optimizing computational fluid dynamics models and improving industrial applications. Future work should consider additional variables such as particle roughness to further refine predictive capabilities. This study contributes to advancing theoretical and practical insights into non-spherical particle behaviors in complex flow environments.
[57] Li, Jie,Ma, Fuli,Bai, Xiaohong ,等.Study on the Influence of Water Content on Compaction Impact Force Transfer of Loess Silt[J].太原理工大学学报,2025,56 (5):916-923,Taiyuan University of Technology
摘要：【Purposes】Loess area is widely distributed in China, and the effective use of compaction energy is an important factor to control the engineering quality after remolding of loose soil. 【Methods】In order to find out the specific law of energy transfer in the process of soil compaction, laboratory standard heavy compaction tests were carried out on loessial silt in a certain area, and compaction impact forces were measured by the “Stress test system in soil during compaction”, and the laws of compaction impact force transfer under different water content conditions were compared and analyzed.【Results】The analyses show that the remolding process of loose soil is a dynamic consolida tion process, and the action time is very short. The impact loading rate is affected by particle continuity. The closer the contact of soil particles is, the higher the loading rate is. The impact force increases with the increase of compaction times, basically in the form of exponential function, when the soil tends to be dense, the impact force reaches the peak. Water content has a significant effect on impact force transmission. The optimal water content and its dry side can effectively transfer the impact force. When the water content exceeds the optimal water content, the ultra-high pore water pressure will off set the compaction impact force, resulting in energy waste. Therefore, the compaction water content should be strictly controlled in fill projects to avoid unnecessary economic waste. © 2025, Taiyuan University of Technology. All rights reserved.
[58] Michael P. McGuire,Eric M. Hunstein,Elise G. Hummel ,等.Theory Manual for the Load Displacement Compatibility Method (LDC) for Design of Column-Supported Embankments: A Companion to GeogridBridge 3.0[M],2024,American Society of Civil Engineers
摘要：Sponsored by the Geosynthetics Technical Committee of the Technical Coordination Council of the Geo-Institute of ASCETheory Manual for the Load Displacement Compatibility Method (LDC) for Design of Column Supported Embankments: A Companion to GeogridBridge 3.0, GSP 356, guides engineers through an updated, detailed overview on the theory, premises, implementations, and mathematical foundations of the Load Displacement Compatibility method for the design of column-supported *** geotechnical resources and tools are also provided within this publication to assist engineers with the design and construction of column-supported *** include• Load transfer mechanisms,• Consolidation and compression, and• Monte Carlo *** 356 intends to be a valued guide and informed resource for civil engineers and geoengineering professionals looking to utilize advancing geotechnologies for the design and construction of future column-supported *** access the GeogridBridge spreadsheet, go to https://***/10.17605/***/HQRBU. This will redirect to the OSF | GeogridBridge3.0 website.
[59] Junping Liu,Yitu Yang,Jianming Yuan ,等.Experimental and numerical analysis of force transfer mechanisms in joints of concrete-filled steel tube truss arch bridge[J].Engineering Structures,2025,341 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Studies have consistently identified a recurring issue of debonding at the interface between the steel tube and the concrete core in CFST truss arch bridges. To address this challenge, the authors propose the incorporation of inner studs along the inner surface of the steel tube at the joint of the truss arch ribs. Five innovative CFST joint specimens were fabricated and tested, incorporating key variables such as steel-concrete interface debonding, the presence of inner studs welded to the internal surface of the steel tube, and variations in web member diameter. The results revealed that the predominant failure mode was weld tearing. Furthermore, the initial stiffness of the CFST joints improved with the introduction of inner studs and an increase in web member diameter. The presence of inner studs resulted in an enhancement of shear force transmission by more than 30 %. To further explore this phenomenon, detailed finite element (FE) model were developed to examine the underlying force transmission mechanism. The length and angle of force transmission within the CFST joint were quantitatively characterized, providing insights into the optimal positioning of inner studs in the region where shear forces are transferred.
[60] Weijie Ning,Partha P. Debnath,Tak-Ming Chan ,等.Experimental and analytical assessments of force transfer mechanisms in CFST columns with blind-bolted shear connections[J].Engineering Structures,2026,356, Part B ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper presents an experimental investigation into the load transfer behaviour of concrete-filled steel tubular (CFST) columns with blind-bolted shear connections. Eight large scale load transfer tests are described, including two on welded reference specimens. The influence of the connection type as well as the column length above and below the connection are directly examined through a detailed assessment of the failure modes, load-displacement response, and strain development. The results show that blind-bolted connections, including standard configurations, can achieve full load transfer and activate the complete composite resistance of the CFST column, whereas welded connections were limited by insufficient bond interaction. Extended blind-bolts are found to further enhance the load transfer efficiency by mobilising a larger concrete region and reducing the local deformation in the tubular column. Although increasing the upper column length improves the column strength in welded specimens, the results indicate that it has a limited influence on blind-bolted columns once full composite action is achieved. Finally, based on the results, the suitability of existing design provisions associated with idealised conditions, for predicting the strength of CFST columns with blind-bolted connections, are examined and discussed.
[61] Shang, Yanyan,Fan, Huiqing,Shi, Hengliang ,等.Enhancing the charge transfer driving force in ZnO/g-C3N4 S-scheme heterojunction via piezoelectric field for photocatalytic H2 evolution[J].Applied Catalysis A: General,2026,714 ,ELSEVIER
摘要：A ZnO/g-C3N4 S-scheme heterojunction was successfully fabricated via a facile calcination method. Under the synergistic effect of visible light and ultrasonic oscillation, the piezoelectric polarization of ZnO offered an extra driving force for charge separation. The induced piezoelectric field (PEF) accelerated the charge transfer and improved the visible-light response and photocatalytic H2 production efficiency. Under such coupled excitation, the extra driving force enlarged the energy band bending and strengthened the inherent internal electric field (IEF) of the heterojunction. Benefiting from the cooperation between the PEF and IEF, the heterojunction exhibited an excellent H2 evolution rate (HER) of 6739.25 mu molg- 1h- 1 over 4 h under simultaneous visible-light irradiation and ultrasonic treatment, which was 15.51 times higher than that of pure g-C3N4. This work provides a new and universal strategy: promoting carrier migration in photocatalysts by piezoelectric polarization to enhance their energy conversion efficiency.
[62] Issakhov, Alibek,Abylkassymova, Aizhan,Issakhov, Assylbek .Simulation of conjugate convective heat transfer in a vertical channel with thermal conductivity property of the solid blocks under the effect of buoyancy force[J].Numerical Heat Transfer, Part A: Applications,2025,86 (12):4203-4246,TAYLOR & FRANCIS INC
摘要：Currently, the cooling of electronic circuits is one of the most serious problems due to the exponential growth in demand for ever more powerful computer systems;overheating of these components becomes a serious problem. This article presents a number of computational results obtained by simulating a two-dimensional air flow for cooling occurring in a vertical channel. The area under study contains two square blocks simulating a set of electronic elements that are evenly installed in the vertical direction. The 2-D conjugate model of heat transfers between a solid body and an air flow is used with defined boundary conditions. In particular, the basic partial differential equations are approximated by the finite volume method. To study the impact of different parameters on the resulting heat transfer inside the channel, calculations are made for various parameters: Reynolds number, materials, and geometric parameters.
[63] Chu, Shijun,Marensi, Elena,Willis, Ashley P. .Optimal body force for heat transfer in turbulent vertical heated pipe flow[J].Journal of Fluid Mechanics,2025,1019 :A21-A21,CAMBRIDGE UNIV PRESS
摘要：The vertical heated pipe is widely used in thermal engineering applications, as buoyancy can help drive a flow, but several flow regimes are possible: shear-driven turbulence, laminarised flow and convective turbulence. Steady velocity fields that maximise heat transfer have previously been calculated for heated pipe flow, but were calculated independently of buoyancy forces, and hence independently of the flow regime and time-dependent dynamics of the flow. In this work, a variational method is applied to find an optimal body force of limited magnitude $A_0$ that maximises heat transfer for the vertical arrangement, with the velocity field constrained by the full governing equations. In our calculations, mostly at Reynolds number ${\textit{Re}}=3000$ , it is found that streamwise-independent rolls remain optimal, as in previous steady optimisations, but that the optimal number of rolls and their radial position is dependent on the flow regime. Surprisingly, while it is generally assumed that turbulence enhances heat transfer, for the strongly forced case, time dependence typically leads to a reduction. Beyond offering potential improvement through the targeting of the roll configuration for this application, wider implications are that optimisations under the steady flow assumption may overestimate improvements in heat transfer, and that strategies that simply aim to induce turbulence may not necessarily be efficient in enhancing heat transfer either. Including time dependence and the full governing equations in the optimisation is challenging but offers further enhancement and improved reliability in prediction.
[64] Di Zhang,Ersha Fan,Qiyue Zhang ,等.Mechanical force-induced proton transfer promotes the selective extraction of spent lithium iron phosphate[J].Green Chemistry,2026,28 (14):6432-6441,Elsevier Science
摘要：Recycling spent lithium-ion batteries is a crucial link in promoting the development of a clean energy circular economy. However, traditional pyrometallurgical methods are energy-intensive and complex, making it difficult to economically recycle LiFePO<sub>4</sub> (LFP). Herein, we propose a mechanical force-induced proton transfer and oxidation coupling synergy strategy for the selective extraction of lithium from spent LFP materials. This method employs low-cost and environmentally friendly sodium tartrate and hydrogen peroxide (H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub>) as co-grinding reagents. A dual reaction mechanism is synergistically triggered under mechanical force: mechanical activation promotes the proton dissociation of sodium tartrate hydroxyl groups, facilitating proton-assisted delithiation; simultaneously, H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub><em>in situ</em> oxidizes Fe<sup>2+</sup> to Fe<sup>3+</sup>, driving the topological conversion of LFP into FePO<sub>4</sub>, thereby efficiently extracting lithium while stabilizing iron in the solid phase. Under optimized conditions, the lithium leaching efficiency reaches 99.2%, and 95.2% of iron is enriched in the residue as high-purity FePO<sub>4</sub>. Compared with traditional hydrometallurgical recycling, the proposed route reduces greenhouse gas emissions by 17% and lowers overall processing costs to 82%. Moreover, the resulting lithium-rich solution and Fe-containing residue can serve as precursors for regenerating LFP cathode materials. The regenerated LFP exhibits excellent cycling performance, with a capacity retention of 97.3% after 100 cycles at 1C. Therefore, this study develops a green, economical, and high-value recycling pathway for spent LFP batteries. This approach embodies the recycling principles of atom economy and process greening, providing a practical and feasible technical solution for the sustainable regeneration of spent LFP batteries.
[65] Karthik, Mondi Rama,Rao, Thella Babu .Physics-informed data-driven ensemble and transfer learning approaches for prediction of temperature field and cutting force during machining IN625 superalloy[J].International Journal on Interactive Design and Manufacturing (IJIDeM),2025,19 (10):7027-7060,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：The machining performance of nickel-based superalloys, such as IN625, is affected by thermal gradients and cutting forces, leading to tool wear, poor surface quality, and dimensional inaccuracy. A physics-informed data-driven approach using ensemble and transfer learning is proposed to predict temperature fields and cutting forces. Finite element (FE) simulations were used to generate data for training machine learning (ML) models, including AdaBoost, SVR, Random Forest, and others. The best set of hyperparameter values for each ML model are derived by the grid search method with tenfold cross-validation. The estimated statistical parameters suggest that the AdaBoost regression model performed best, with 99.89% prediction accuracy for cutting temperature prediction on the training data, followed by Stochastic Gradient Boosting (99.69%), Random Forest (98.72%), and Gaussian Process Regression (98.57%). For cutting force prediction, the SVR model outperformed others with 100% prediction accuracy on the training data. On the validation data, AdaBoost demonstrated the best performance for predicting cutting temperature, and the Gaussian Process Regression model showed the best performance for predicting cutting force, with an average error of 4% and 7% between the model predictions and their experimental values, respectively. The results of feature importance analysis from various machine learning models formulated to predict cutting temperature and cutting force are aligned with the theoretical significance of the cutting variables on respective cutting responses. Accordingly, the presented results demonstrated the successful integration of FE model-based knowledge and prediction capability of ML approaches for the estimation of thermal fields and cutting forces in machining IN625 superalloy. Therefore, the presented architecture can be effectively implemented to derive the optimal machining conditions and also integrated with computer-aided manufacturing software as t
[66] Chuanbiao Bie,Zheng Meng,Bowen He ,等.Exploring photogenerated charge carrier transfer in semiconductor/metal junctions using Kelvin probe force microscopy[J].Journal of Materials Science & Technology,2024,173 (6):11-19,Chinese Society of Metals
摘要：Semiconductor/metal junctions are widely discussed in ***,there is a notable scarcity of systematic studies focusing on photogenerated charge carrier transfer in such ***,CdS/Pt,CdS/Au,and CdS/Ag are synthesized to serve as model systems for investigating the charge carrier transfer in semiconductor/metal *** probe force microscopy is employed to visualize the transfer of photogenerated carriers in these *** results show that the electron transfer behavior under illumination is related to the conduction band position of CdS and the Fermi level position of the ***,Schottky junctions hinder the transfer of photogenerated electrons from CdS to Pt and Au,whereas ohmic contacts facilitate the transfer of photogenerated electrons from CdS to *** work provides novel insights into the mechanisms governing the transfer of photogenerated carriers in semiconductor/metal junctions.
[67] James A. Alatis,Riley H. Stephenson,Alexander C. Wilcox ,等.Driving Force Dependent Photoinduced Charge Transfer Dynamics in Polymer-Wrapped Semiconducting Single-Walled Carbon Nanotubes[J].Journal of the American Chemical Society,2025,147 (47):43822-43830,American Chemical Society
摘要：We investigate the thermodynamic driving-force dependences of photoinduced charge separation (CS) and subsequent charge transfer dynamics in single-walled carbon nanotube (SWNT)–perylenediimide (PDI) donor–acceptor (D–A) superstructures. Pump–probe spectroscopy reveals that [SWNT(•+)n]-(PDI–•)nCS states form on an ∼100 fs time scale following photoexcitation; these dynamics are invariant across an ∼400 mV driving force range, indicating that SWNT hole polaron formation time scales are determined by nanotube lattice and solvent relaxation. These CS states feature SWNT hole polarons adjacent to (geminate) and nearby (nongeminate) PDI radical anions. Analysis of the free energy dependence for charge recombination (CR) of [SWNT•+]geminate-(PDI–•) CS states highlights an ∼2 meV value for D–A electronic coupling (HAB) and ∼0.93 eV for the total reorganization energy (λT). A corresponding driving force dependence of the CR dynamics for [SWNT•+]nongeminate-(PDI–•) CS states indicates a diminished HABvalue (∼0.6 meV) and a larger λT(∼1.1 eV), consistent with larger transfer distances. SWNT excitons that persist following photoinduced CS drive photooxidation of PDI–•components of [SWNT(•+)n]-(PDI–•)nCS states (1SWNT* + PDI•–→ PDI + SWNT•–); this reaction manifests a significantly reduced λTvalue (∼0.67 eV) as the initially prepared SWNT reduced state bears the character of a conduction band injected electron ([SWNT•–]CB). This reaction thus gives rise to relaxed, nongeminate SWNT electron and hole polarons on the same nanotube; these polarons react on a 102ps time scale independent of the electronic structure of these SWNT-PDI superstructures.
[68] Gao, Xingjun,Wang, Mengkai,Chen, Gongfa ,等.High-precision cable force identification in bridges: a data-driven approach integrating digital twins and transfer learning[J].Discover Mechanical Engineering,2025,4 (1):1-16,SPRINGERNATURE
摘要：This paper proposes a novel data-driven framework for accurate cable force monitoring in bridges, which is crucial for ensuring structural integrity and extending service life. Leveraging the power of Digital Twins (DT), a comprehensive dataset of numerical cable models is generated. This synthetic data is used to pre-train a backpropagation (BP) neural network, providing a robust foundation. Subsequently, Transfer Learning (TL) is employed to refine the pre-trained model using limited real-world cable force data. This hybrid approach significantly enhances prediction accuracy, achieving consistently low errors-below 4% for short cables and 2% for long cables. Numerical examples demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework, highlighting its potential for reliable and cost-effective cable force identification in real-world bridge applications.
[69] Dai, Zheze,Chen, Xiaoliang,Hao, Yaya ,等.Transfer Learning-Empowered High-Throughput Atomic Force Microscopy Structural Analysis of DNA Nanostructures[J].Small Structures,2025,6 (11),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：Atomic force microscopy (AFM) has become an indispensable tool for characterizing DNA nanostructures. However, conventional AFM analysis relies heavily on manual operation, which is inherently time-consuming and prone to subjective bias. Herein, a transfer learning-assisted AFM single-particle analysis (AFMSPA) tool is presented, which enables automated high-throughput AFM structural analysis of DNA origami nanostructures. AFMSPA leverages a U-Net-based neural network trained on experimentally acquired datasets to automatically detect and classify individual DNA origami in raw AFM images. It further enables the on-demand extraction of morphological parameters by users. The tool currently supports fully automated quantitative analysis for four representative 2D DNA origami nanostructures, i.e., triangle, rectangle, hexagon, and diatom, each achieving a detection accuracy above 0.95. Moreover, by integrating a human-in-the-loop transfer learning strategy, AFMSPA can be readily adapted to a broad range of DNA origami nanostructures, offering a scalable solution for the statistical analysis of AFM datasets in the field of self-assembled nanomaterials.
[70] Zhang, Leigang,Ru, Meng,Zhang, Yonghai ,等.Experimental Study of Condensation Heat Transfer in Tubes under Centrifugal Force[J].Microgravity Science and Technology,2025,37 (1):1-15,SPRINGER
摘要：In this study, fluid flow during condensation in a tube under different gravity conditions is simulated by utilizing centrifugal force to offset gravitational effects. The role of fins, tube diameter, and steam quality on the two-phase flow pattern, temperature distribution, and pressure drop is investigated. The results show that gravity, tube diameter, and steam quality have a significant effect on the flow pattern. The flow characteristics were also significantly affected by the operating parameters, with undulating and laminar flow dominating, while bubbling flow emerges under specific conditions. In microgravity environments, as steam quality decreases, the temperature drop diminishes progressively compared to normal gravity conditions. Under normal gravity and low flow conditions, the average temperature of finned tubes increased by 7 degrees C to 16.4 degrees C relative to bare tube temperatures, and the pressure drop escalated by up to 56%. The introduction of fins notably enhanced heat transfer efficiency and facilitated a more uniform temperature distribution. However, this enhancement in heat transfer was accompanied by an increase in pressure drop due to the heightened resistance to fluid flow caused by the presence of fins. These experimental insights offer a deeper comprehension of fluid behavior under diverse gravity conditions and lay a scientific foundation for designing future thermal management systems.
[71] Yu, Yannan,Chen, Zhuyun,Dhupia, Jaspreet Singh ,等.An Enhanced Partial Transfer Fault Diagnosis Network Aided by Dual-Force Boundary Refinement and Inverse-Forward Adaptive Alignment[J].IEEE Sensors Journal,2025,25 (2):3821-3836,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Partial domain adaptation (PDA) is better suited to address the practical challenges of transfer fault diagnosis in rotating machinery. However, existing PDA methods often suffer from two key issues: the propagation of uncertainty caused by high prediction scores for incorrect source domain classes and instability in label distribution alignment due to relying on only low-weight filtering by the classifier. To overcome these issues, this article proposes an enhanced partial transfer fault diagnosis network with dual-force boundary refinement (DFBR) and inverse-forward adaptive alignment (IFAA). First, the 1-D vibration signals are converted into 2-D representations using the Gram angle field (GAF). ResNet50, embedded with coordinate attention (CA), is employed as a feature extractor to capture high-dimensional, fine-grained features for knowledge transfer. Second, the developed loss fusion enhancement strategy (LFES) increases classifier discrimination and stabilizes label distribution alignment. DFBR refines decision boundaries by promoting high-confidence predictions for correct classes while penalizing incorrect ones. IFAA steadily balances cross-domain label distribution by combining forward filtering with inverse progressive supplementation, extending the outlier samples filtering strategy by gradually enriching the target domain with source domain features. Finally, the superiority of the proposed method is validated through extensive comparisons with state-of-the-art models on PDA mechanical fault diagnosis tasks.
[72] Hao Liu,Guoqing Li,Hui Li ,等.Conjugate heat transfer analysis on the action mechanism of centrifugal force and centrifugal buoyancy in staggered labyrinth seals[J].Case Studies in Thermal Engineering,2024,61 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The heat transfer characteristics of smooth and honeycomb staggered labyrinth seals were investigated using the conjugate heat transfer method. Three pressure ratios (π = 1.2, 1.6, and 2.0), three rotational speeds (RPM = 0, 10,000, and 20,000), and two wall-to-fluid temperature ratios (TR = 0.4 and −0.67) are considered to explore the influence of centrifugal force and centrifugal buoyancy. The results indicate that the heat transfer coefficient of staggered labyrinth seals increases with pressure ratio due to the increased flow velocity and the thinner boundary layer. As a result of the interaction of inertia force and centrifugal force, some enhancement positions of heat transfer coefficient shift slightly. Notably, centrifugal buoyancy has a negative impact on heat transfer at TR = −0.67, but a positive impact at TR = 0.4. When TR = −0.67, there is a peak of the heat transfer coefficient with increased rotational speed due to centrifugal buoyancy. In addition, the heat transfer coefficient at TR = −0.67 is lower than that at TR = 0.4, especially at high rotational speeds. It is proposed that heat transfer correlations be developed by incorporating the Taylor number and rotating Grachev number. © 2024 The Authors
[73] Jinhyeok Pyo,Jungmoon Lim,Junsung Byeon ,等.Etchant-Free Wafer-Scale 2D Transfer and van der Waals 3D Integration via Peel-Off Force Engineering[J].ACS Nano,2025,19 (28):25860-25869,American Chemical Society
摘要：Clean van der Waals (vdW) contacts are critical for realizing high-performance, reliable devices and integrated circuits based on two-dimensional (2D) transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs). However, conventional transfer methods that rely on etchants often degrade TMDs, hampering the formation of pristine vdW interfaces. Here, we suggest an etchant-free transfer technique that prevents both direct and indirect damage by precisely controlling the peel-off force (POF) through surface-tension modulation (STM). Guided by a modified Kendall’s model, we determine the optimal surface tension for common, nontoxic mixtures of deionized water and ethanol, thereby maximizing the POF. Using this POF-assisted method, we fabricate high-performance 2D vdW field-effect transistors (FETs), integrating device components without etchant-induced damage. These FETs exhibit a field-effect mobility of 162.2 cm2·V–1·s–1, an on/off ratio exceeding 108, a subthreshold swing of 72 mV·dec–1, and an interface trap density of ∼1012cm–2·eV–1, demonstrating high-quality vdW contacts. Finally, we suggest the all-vdW logic circuit design, demonstrated through a complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) logic test structure. This work demonstrates a process-compatible approach for the lab-to-fab transition of 2D TMD electronics, achieving reliable device yields and the performance levels required for next-generation vdW-integrated systems.
[74] Daichi Yokoyama,Masahide Otsubo,Reiko Kuwano .Shaping force-transfer arch to retain subsurface cavity in coarse sandy ground[J].Soils and Foundations,2025,65 (4),Elsevier Science
摘要：Ground cave-ins, which are the collapse and discontinuous subsidence of the ground surface, are thought to be caused by the expansion and upward movement of subsurface cavities due to fluctuations in the groundwater table or earthquakes. Compared to cohesive clays or plastic silts, cohesionless sands are more vulnerable to cavity formation and subsequent ground cave-ins. With recent technology, such as ground-penetrating radar, geometrical information on cavities, <em>e.g.,</em> location and shape, can be detected. In practice, the soil cover thickness-to-cavity width ratio (<span class="math"><math><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">H</mi><mo is="true" stretchy="false">/</mo><mi is="true">B</mi></mrow></math></span>) is often used for risk assessments of cave-ins. However, it is questionable whether <span class="math"><math><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">H</mi><mo is="true" stretchy="false">/</mo><mi is="true">B</mi></mrow></math></span> alone is sufficient for these risk assessments since the mechanical responses, such as the resistance of the remaining soil above the cavity, are not considered. For this reason, the aim of the present contribution is to understand the mechanism underlying the subsurface cavity stability by considering the force transfer around the cavity. Suction measurement, cavity retention, and needle penetration model tests were conducted using various coarse granular materials. The results revealed that suction is essential to preventing cavities from collapsing, and that suction is higher for smaller particles, particles with lower degrees of saturation, and particles with angular shapes and smoother surfaces. In addition to <span class="math"><math><mrow is="true"><mi is="true">H</mi><mo is="true" stretchy="false">/</mo><mi is="true">B</mi></mrow></math></span>, the mechanical interlock from angularity or roughness contributes to cavity stability. Laboratory needle penetration tests revealed the existence of a force-transfer arch between the soun
[75] Tokusawa, Sota,Quan, Chunri,Kimura, Seiya ,等.RESEARCH ON AXIAL FORCE TRANSFER MECHANISM OF CFT COLUMN CONNECTION TO SEISMIC ISOLATOR[J].AIJ Journal of Technology and Design,2025,31 (79):1379-1384,Architectural Institute of Japan
摘要：In this study, axial static loading tests for CFT column specimens connected with seismic isolator were conducted to grasp sustained load transfer mechanism of the composite structural system. The test results confirmed the effectiveness of diaphragm installed in CFT column which transferred axial force to the infilled concrete. In addition, the effect of rib plate attached to diaphragm was clarified which suppressed its deformation. Furthermore, axial force distribution of steel tube and infilled concrete in CFT column was accurately evaluated by considering bearing pressure behavior of infilled concrete due to diaphragm. © 2025 Architectural Institute of Japan. All rights reserved.
[76] Li, Zhengkang,Ni, Chang .Prediction of Cutting Force for Different Tools Based on Transfer Learning and Neural Networks[J].International Journal of Precision Engineering and Manufacturing,2025,26 (7):1567-1586,KOREAN SOC PRECISION ENG
摘要：Processing large and complex parts requires various tools, a number of which need to be replaced during the process. However, the variable dynamic characteristics of different cutting tools can significantly affect the accuracy of cutting force modeling and prediction. A data-driven approach utilizing neural networks and transfer learning is proposed for predicting milling forces across various tools. Initially, cutting data from milling experiments using different tools and machining parameters are collected to form a dataset. The source tool contains a comprehensive set of process parameters data, whereas the target tool includes a small number of labeled and test groups. Afterwards, the input data of the source and target tools are fed into an autoencoder with a maximum mean discrepancy loss function to reduce the marginal distribution discrepancy. Furthermore, affine transformation is performed to generate pseudo-labels, thereby augmenting the dataset and providing coarse data for the target tool. Finally, the TrAdaBoost.R2 algorithm is applied to establish the cutting force prediction model specific to the target tool. The training set of which includes a combination of pseudo-data and a small amount of target tool marked data, enabling accurate prediction of the cutting forces for the target tool's unlabeled data. Detailed experimental validation is performed on five-axis machine tools to verify the accuracy and effectiveness of the designed methodology. Comparison results show that prediction accuracy improved by more than 50%, 35%, and 65% compared with network trained directly with source domain data, models trained directly with TrAdaBoost.R2 algorithm, and network trained with small amounts of data from the target tool, respectively, which showcase the superiority of the proposed model.
[77] Wang, Jiawen,Feng, Xinyue,Lv, Mindong ,等.Electromagnetic Compatibility Analysis and Optimization of a Resolver for Measuring the Angular Displacement in High-Power Synchronous Motor[M],2024,Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
摘要：As a high-precision measurement device of angular displacement and angular velocity, the stability and robustness to harsh environments make resolver the first choice for many rotating equipment monitoring systems, which plays a vital role in a variety of industrial applications. However, in fact that the resolver is essentially a sensor in compliance with the principle of electromagnetic induction, which means that its performance is affected by the complex electromagnetic environment in the presence of multiple potential sources of interference. In this paper, a sine-cosine resolver of Model SG110-XXV1 is applied to a high-power synchronous motor, and induced voltage of the resolver appears to be distorted during the experimental process, which affects the measurement accuracy of angular displacement and the control operation of motor. In order to accurately determine the source of interference and find an effective solution, this paper establishes a complete set of Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC)analysis process and test system. After the spectrum analysis of distorted waveforms, the results show that excessive armature magnetic field and excitation magnetic field of motor will have an impact on the resolver, the baseband frequency related to rotational speed is out of range, which should take certain solutions such as designing a corresponding filter to eliminate interference. After the implementation of the proposed solution, the completeness of the analysis process and the effectiveness of the solution are confirmed through experimental verification, which not only restores the normal output signal of resolver, but also forms a complete closed-loop control system between the high-power synchronous motor and the resolver, which ensures the stable operation and great dynamic performance of the system. ©2024 IEEE.
[78] Zeng, Zeng,Wang, Zhigang,Wang, Zhiqiang ,等.Experimental and Numerical Study of Grout Effectiveness and Force-Transfer Mechanism in Socket Connections[J].Journal of Bridge Engineering,2024,29 (4),ASCE-AMER SOC CIVIL ENGINEERS
摘要：This study aims to investigate the effectiveness of grout and the mechanism of force transfer in socket connections. In doing so, it proposes a new transfer mode called integral transfer mode (ITM), as opposed to the conventional separate transfer mode (STM). The proposed ITM suggests that, in a reinforced concrete socket connection, if there is a strong bond between the column, grouting material, and receiving member, the socket connection will function as an integral structure, deforming together as a whole rather than as separate components. Consequently, the grouting material does not need to provide a significant lateral bearing force, and the interface shear stresses become the key focus in designing a socket connection. To explore this concept, quasi-static tests and numerical analyses using solid elements were conducted on three half-scale specimens with varying grout strengths. The results demonstrated that the performance of specimens with normal-strength grout was comparable to that of the specimen with high-strength grout. And the proposed ITM was better than STM at predicting failure modes, force-displacement relationships, the stress states of reinforcements, and grout stresses.
[79] Donat, Heiko,Steil, Jochen,Ben Halima, Aziza .Efficient Data-Driven Force Sensing for Concentric Tube Continuum Robots using Diffeomorphic-Mapping-Based Transfer Learning[M].2025 IEEE 8TH INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON SOFT ROBOTICS, ROBOSOFT,2025,IEEE
摘要：Data-driven techniques show promising results in force estimation for Concentric Tube Continuum Robots, but often require extensive datasets, which are difficult to acquire. This work introduces a mapping-based transfer learning approach to improve the efficiency of data-driven methods for contact force estimation, by proposing a diffeomorphic mapping-based algorithm that reduces data requirements, enabling more practical application of these methods. By transforming data from pre-curved tubes into the feature space of non-curved tubes, our method allows a pre-trained neural network to estimate forces efficiently across various tube configurations, eliminating the need for additional data for changing tube configurations and retraining of the network. Simulation tests show high accuracy for curvatures up to kappa = 7 1/m, significantly reducing the need to create large datasets for each new robot configuration.
[80] A. Al-Zubaidi,Zareen Zafar,Mubbashar Nazeer ,等.Optimization of fluid flow and heat transfer analysis of peristaltic transport in fluid–particle suspension flow of Sisko fluid with electrokinetic force[J].Canadian Journal of Physics,2026,104 :1-22,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study investigates the electrokinetic transport of a non-Newtonian Sisko fluid containing rigid spherical particles, motivated by the need to understand liquid–solid suspensions in microfluidic and lab-on-chip applications. The problem is important because particle–fluid interactions under external electric fields strongly influence both flow regulation and heat transfer efficiency in such devices. A two-phase model is developed to describe the motion of the carrier fluid and dispersed particles. The electric double layer potential is linearized using the Debye–Hückel approximation, and the governing transport equations are simplified under the assumptions of long wavelength and low Reynolds number. Analytical solutions are obtained: the potential and temperature distributions are derived through a dedicated computational algorithm, while perturbation analysis yields the velocity field. The results show that the particle phase moves faster than the fluid phase, with the fluid velocity consistently lower than the particle velocity. Quantitatively, an increase in particle volume fraction reduces the heat transfer rate by about 16%, whereas enhancing the Helmholtz–Smoluchowski velocity leads to a 9% rise in heat transfer in a non-uniform channel. These findings confirm that rigid particles play a critical role in modulating flow and thermal performance. Validation against existing literature demonstrates consistency while highlighting the novelty of the present formulation. Unlike previous studies, this work provides a complete two-phase Sisko fluid framework under electrokinetic effects, offering new insights for optimizing flow control and improving heat transfer in lab-on-chip and related microfluidic technologies.
[81] Wenqi Ding,Tong Lin,Yun Yang ,等.Proton motive force generated by microbial rhodopsin promotes extracellular electron transfer[J].Synthetic and Systems Biotechnology,2025,10 (2):410-420,[Beijing, China] : KeAi Communications Co., -
摘要：The primary limitation to the practicability of electroactive microorganisms in bioelectrochemical systems lies in their low extracellular electron transfer(EET)*** proton motive force(PMF)represents the electrochemical gradient of protons generated by electron transport and proton pumping across the cytoplasmic membrane,serving as a crucial energy transfer pathway in bacterial ***,the impact of PMF on the EET efficiency remains ambiguous,while the microbial rhodopsin offers a simple and efficient avenue for non-photosynthetic cells to harness ***,we studied the function of three microbial rhodopsins(Arch,Mac,and cR-1)in facilitating EET via their heterologous expression in ***,a model electroactive *** these,the recombinant strain expressing rhodopsin cR-1 exhibited the highest output power density of 0.87 W/m^(2),3.49-fold increase over the wild-type *** *** further transcriptomics analyses of the energy and materials metabolism of strain cR-1 showed that the underlying mechanism of enhanced EET efficiency was resulted from heterologous expression of the light-driven proton *** results suggested that strain cR-1 effectively expels protons to generate additional PMF and provide extra ATP supply to the cells,which facilitated lactate uptake and utilization,thus enhancing electrons generation in *** augmented intracellular electron pool capacity ultimately resulted in enhancement of EET rate and power generation efficiency of the recombinant ***.
[82] Sato, Yuriko,Ogino, Yosuke,Sano, Tomokazu .Process parameters and their effect on metal transfer in gas metal arc welding: a driving force perspective[J].Welding in the World,2024,68 (4):905-913,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：In gas metal arc welding (GMAW), the optimization of process parameters and the control of metal transfer is pivotal for achieving superior welding outcomes. This study meticulously examines the roles of core process parameters in metal transfer: wire extension and arc geometry, which includes arc length and inter-cathode distance. Using a unique MIG-based non-transferred arc system with symmetrically arranged tungsten cathodes we have achieved distinct control over wire feed rate and arc geometry, independent of the arc current. We investigate the interplay of these parameters and their consequential influence on the driving forces governing metal transfer. While increasing the wire extension enhanced inertial forces, it did not lead to consistent transitions in the metal transfer modes. In contrast, adjusting arc length and inter-cathode distance effectively controlled the electromagnetic force acting on molten droplets, as quantified by the arc spread angle theta. Notably, an increase in the arc spread angle resulted in the elongation of molten droplets. This study clarifies the fundamental relationships between driving forces and process parameters in GMAW. Additionally, it introduces a more advanced evaluation model for electromagnetic force and offers a comprehensive strategy for refining welding control techniques.
[83] Yifei Xu,Qingshan Liu,Langyuan Wu ,等.In SituRegulation of Interfacial Charge Transfer and Interlayer Van der Waals Force Enables Ultrafast Aluminum-Ion Diffusion[J].Nano Letters,2025,25 (37):13730-13738,American Chemical Society
摘要：The diffusion kinetics of trivalent aluminum ions in intercalated cathode materials is impeded, significantly impeding the advancement of rechargeable Al batteries. We propose a strategy for the enhancement of Al3+diffusion kinetics through the incorporation of Li+, aimed at improving the Al-storage properties in model MoS2material. By modulating the Li+concentration (1–8 wt %) in a room-temperature ionic-liquid electrolyte, we elucidate its correlation with the overall electrochemical performance. At 3.33 wt % Li+, it substantially reduces the interlayer van der Waals force by inducing a high-quality and stable phase transition and simultaneously optimizes the charge transfer at the cathode–electrolyte interface, thereby comprehensively accelerating the Al3+transport. The assembled MoS2||Al pouch battery exhibits the highest recorded electrochemical performance, achieving an initial discharge capacity of 253.1 mAh g–1and maintaining a high capacity of 202.3 mAh g–1after 200 cycles at 0.5 A g–1. These findings provide valuable insights into the development of metal-phase insertion cathode materials in Al batteries.
[84] Zhen, Ruichen,Jiang, Li,Ding, Kehan ,等.Force Perception for Rigid-Soft Finger Without Force Sensors: Theoretical Analysis, and Model Transfer[J].IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters,2024,9 (2):1867-1874,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：Force perception is important for the manipulation of soft robotic hands. Multiple-direction interactions between fingers and objects occur predominantly at the fingertips during manipulation. Integrating physical multi-dimensional force sensors for soft fingertips poses stringent demands on the manufacturing process, material selection, and structural design. Therefore, we proposed a model-based and data-driven combined method to estimate the forces on the fingertip using the embedded liquid metal position and pressure sensors. This approach reduces the complexity of sensor system design and integration. In this letter, we established the theoretical model of the rigid-soft finger, to generate a pre-training dataset after a pre-identification for theoretical model parameters. This dataset is used to pre-train a source network, and then transfer the source network with the real-world dataset to obtain the final force estimator with great generalization ability. The proposed method contributes to obtaining a better force estimator in fewer samples and biased datasets, effectively reducing the difficulty of data acquisition.
[85] Hu, Yuan,Zhou, Wenqin,Chen, Lin .Mitochondrial transfer: a Janus-faced force in health and disease[J].Journal of Translational Medicine,2026,24 (1):76-76,BMC
摘要：Mitochondrial transfer is increasingly recognized as a dynamic form of intercellular communication that reshapes how we understand tissue homeostasis, immune function, and disease progression. Rather than being a passive event, mitochondrial transfer involves the movement of organelles between cells through defined mechanisms, such as tunneling nanotubes, extracellular vesicles, or direct engulfment, altering the metabolic, epigenetic, and immunological profiles of recipient cells. In physiological and regenerative contexts, mitochondrial transfer contributes to cellular rescue, stem cell function, and organ recovery. However, in malignancies and infections, it can subvert immune surveillance, promote metabolic reprogramming, and reinforce pathological resilience. This dual capacity-simultaneously protective and pathogenic-positions mitochondrial transfer as a central yet ambivalent mechanism in health and disease. Beyond mechanistic insight, we explore its implications for emerging mitochondrial therapies, highlighting critical considerations in donor-recipient compatibility, organelle identity, and translational ethics. Mitochondrial transfer is increasingly recognized as a biologically significant process with both therapeutic potential and complex implications for our understanding of intercellular communication.
[86] Iwasaki, Hiroto,Fujimoto, Keisuke,Banno, Koki ,等.Electron Transfer Enhanced by a Minimal Energetic Driving Force at the Organic-Semiconductor Interface (vol 63, e202407368, 2024)[J].Angewandte Chemie - International Edition,2026,WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
[87] Songlin Duan,Dominik Kozjek,Edward Mehr ,等.Forming force prediction in double-sided incremental forming via GNN-based transfer learning[J].Journal of Manufacturing Processes,2024,120 :867-877,Elsevier Science
摘要：This paper proposes a transfer learning approach using graph neural networks (GNN) for predicting the forming force during double-sided incremental forming (DSIF) processes. In order to address the geometry complexity of DSIF parts, a GNN-based model was proposed to aggregate surface geometric information of DSIF parts and toolpaths. Furthermore, a transfer learning method was adopted to improve the prediction. The model was pre-trained on a dataset of previously formed DSIF parts with varying geometries. To address material and machine variations, the model was further trained on the initial few layers of the observed part for calibration and subsequently predicted the forming force in the vertical direction relative to the part's coordinate system for the rest of the layers of the observed part. The performance of our proposed approach was evaluated using experimental datasets from two different machines and different input materials, demonstrating the generality and effectiveness of the approach in forming force prediction. © 2024 The Society of Manufacturing Engineers
[88] Zhao, Caiyou,Zhang, Mingkai,Zhao, Yannan .Analysis of transverse force transfer characteristics of double-non-vibration damping fastener system in small radius curve section of subway[J].铁道科学与工程学报,2024,21 (11):4487-4496,Central South University Press
摘要：In order to explore the transverse force transfer characteristics of the locked double-layer nonlinear vibration damping fastener system in service at the upper part of the small-radius curve section of the subway, the load-displacement curve was measured through laboratory tests. The refined finite element model of the vibration damping fastener system was established according to the actual size. Based on the comparison and verification with the tests, the transverse force transfer process inside the system and the stress of each component were analyzed. The influence law of related factors on transverse force transmission of vibration damping fastener system was developed. The results show that the internal transmission process of the lateral force of the upper locked double-layer nonlinear damping fastener system under the action of the lateral load is complicated and shows obvious nonlinear characteristics. When vertical and lateral loads are applied at the same time, the whole transverse force transfer process of the vibration damping fastening system is divided into five stages. The static friction force of the working side gauge block is overcome. The static friction force of the non-working side gauge block is overcome. The compression deformation of the underrail plate on the non-working side, the lateral support of the non-working side gauge block, and the increase of the static friction force of the underrail plate is reduced. The friction coefficient and buckle pressure between rail bottom and gauge block are the key factors that affect the external load required by the maximum static friction force of gauge block. The greater the friction coefficient is, the greater the external load is required. However, the friction coefficient between the bottom of the rail and the bottom plate of the rail has little influence on the transverse force transfer behavior of the vibration reduction system, because there is always static friction force between the bottom
[89] Xu, Jie,Li, Changjie,Jiang, Wei ,等.Structural Response Prediction of Floating Offshore Wind Turbines Based on Force-to-Motion Transfer Functions and State-Space Models[J].Journal of Marine Science and Engineering,2025,13 (1),MDPI
摘要：This paper proposes an innovative algorithm for forecasting the motion response of floating offshore wind turbines by employing force-to-motion transfer functions and state-space models. Traditional numerical integration techniques, such as the Newmark-beta method, frequently struggle with inefficiencies due to the heavy computational demands of convolution integrals in the Cummins equation. Our new method tackles these challenges by converting the problem into a system output calculation, thereby eliminating convolutions and potentially enhancing computational efficiency. The procedure begins with the estimation of force-to-motion transfer functions derived from the hydrostatic and hydrodynamic characteristics of the wind turbine. These transfer functions are then utilized to construct state-space models, which compactly represent the system dynamics. Motion responses resulting from initial conditions and wave forces are calculated using these state-space models, leveraging their poles and residues. We validated the proposed method by comparing its calculated responses to those obtained via the Newmark-beta method. Initial tests on a single-degree-of-freedom (SDOF) system demonstrated that our algorithm accurately predicts motion responses. Further validation involved a numerical model of a spar-type floating offshore wind turbine, showing high accuracy in predicting responses to both regular and irregular wave conditions, closely aligning with results from conventional methods. Additionally, we assessed the efficiency of our algorithm over various simulation durations, confirming its superior performance compared to traditional time-domain methods. This efficiency is particularly advantageous for long-duration simulations. The proposed approach provides a robust and efficient alternative for predicting motion responses in floating offshore wind turbines, combining high accuracy with improved computational performance. It represents a promising tool for enhancing t
[90] Ye, Yinzhu,Liu, Yang,Guan, Baoshan ,等.Study on Micro-Displacement Mechanism and Reservoir Compatibility of Soft Dispersed Microgel[J].Gels,2023,9 (3):177,MDPI
摘要：Polymer flooding is a key technology for improving reservoir heterogeneity around the world, and it has made great progress. However, the traditional polymer has many shortcomings in the theory and application, which causes the efficiency of polymer flooding to gradually decrease and secondary reservoir damage after a long period of polymer flooding. In this work, a novel polymer particle (soft dispersed microgel, SMG) is used as the research object to further investigate the displacement mechanism and reservoir compatibility of SMG. The visualization experiments of the micro-model prove that SMG has excellent flexibility and can be highly deformable to realize deep migration through the pore throat smaller than SMG itself. The visualization displacement experiments of the plane model further show that SMG has a plugging effect, which makes the displacing fluid flow into the middle and low permeability layers, improving the recovery of these layers. The compatibility tests show that the optimal permeability of the reservoir for SMG-mu m is 250-2000 mD, and the corresponding matching coefficient range is 0.65-1.40. For SMG-mm(-), its corresponding optimal permeabilities of reservoir and matching coefficient are 500-2500 mD and 1.17-2.07, respectively. The comprehensive analysis demonstrates that the SMG has excellent ability of the water-flooding swept control and compatibility with reservoirs, having the potential to solve the problem of traditional polymer flooding.
[91] Nabwey, Hossam A.,Ashraf, Muhammad,Ullah, Zia ,等.REVIEWING THE IMPACT OF MAGNETIC PRANDTL NUMBER AND MAGNETIC FORCE PARAMETER ON CONVECTIVE HEAT TRANSFER IN BOUNDARY LAYERS[J].Special Topics & Reviews in Porous Media: An International Journal,2024,15 (5):81-97,BEGELL HOUSE INC
摘要：This review paper provides a comprehensive inspection how the magnetic Prandtl number (Prandtl number influenced by a magnetic field) and the magnetic force parameter affect convective heat transfer in boundary layers. The investigation delves into the intricate interplay between these parameters and their implications for heat -transfer phenomena. Understanding the influence of magnetic fields on convective heat transfer holds significant importance for diverse engineering applications such as advanced technologies, heat exchangers, and cooling systems. Through a thorough analysis of existing literature, this review offers valuable insights into the complex relationship between the magnetic Prandtl number, the magnetic force parameter, and convective heat transfer in boundary layers. The main novelty of the current review is based on the perception that this review is very beneficial for the readers to establish future work in the field of magneto -material and magneto heat transfer. This review will provide the clear knowledge about the physical significances of the magnetic Prandtl number and magnetic force parameter on chief physical quantities like velocity profile, temperature distribution, skin friction, and heat -transfer rate.
[92] Zou, Jianjun,Zhang, Xiaogang,Zhang, Yali ,等.Prediction of medial knee contact force using multisource fusion recurrent neural network and transfer learning[J].Medical & Biological Engineering & Computing,2024,62 (5):1333-1346,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：Estimation of knee contact force (KCF) during gait provides essential information to evaluate knee joint function. Machine learning has been employed to estimate KCF because of the advantages of low computational cost and real-time. However, the existing machine learning models do not adequately consider gait-related data's temporal-dependent, multidimensional, and highly heterogeneous nature. This study is aimed at developing a multisource fusion recurrent neural network to predict the medial condyle KCF. First, a multisource fusion long short-term memory (MF-LSTM) model was established. Then, we developed a transfer learning strategy based on the MF-LSTM model for subject-specific medial KCF prediction. Four subjects with instrumented tibial prostheses were obtained from the literature. The results showed that the MF-LSTM model could predict medial KCF to a certain high level of accuracy (the mean of rho = 0.970). The transfer learning model improved the prediction accuracy (the mean of rho = 0.987). This study shows that the MF-LSTM model is a powerful and accurate computational tool for medial KCF prediction. Introducing transfer learning techniques could further improve the prediction performance for the target subject. This coupling strategy can help clinicians accurately estimate and track joint contact forces in real *** abstractGait-related data are temporal-dependent, multidimensional, and highly heterogeneous. Therefore, we designed a multisource fusion recurrent neural network (MF-LSTM) structure and introduced a transfer learning strategy to predict knee contact force (KCF) during gait.
[93] Balcázar-Arciniega, Néstor,Rigola, Joaquim,Oliva, Assensi .Drag Force and Mass Transfer in Gravity-Driven Bubbly Flows on Inclined Channels Using the UCLS Method[M].Lecture Notes in Mechanical Engineering,2026,29 :128-137,Springer Science and Business Media Deutschland GmbH
摘要：This research presents a numerical study of drag force and mass transfer in gravity-driven bubbly flows on inclined channels. Direct Numerical Simulations (DNS) of single bubbles and bubble swarms are performed using the multi-marker Unstructured Conservative Level-Set (UCLS) method. In this framework, the multiple marker approach avoids the so-called numerical coalescence of fluid interfaces in bubble swarms, whereas interface capturing and surface tension computation are accurately performed by the UCLS method. Furthermore, the finite-volume method discretizes transport equations on 3D collocated unstructured meshes. The fractional-step projection method solves the pressure-velocity coupling. The central difference scheme discretizes the diffusive term. The convective term within the momentum transport equation, level-set advection equations, and mass transfer equation are discretized by unstructured flux-limiter schemes to avoid numerical oscillations around the interface and minimize numerical diffusion. Numerical simulations show that the Reynolds number initially increases with the inclination angle (θ);however, beyond a transition point at approximately θ≈50∘, Re decreases. On the other hand, the Sherwood number (Sh) shows a sharp reduction after θ≈50∘. © The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2026.
[94] Chung Chi Chio,Ying-Lung Steve Tse .Reparameterization of Polarizable Force Fields for Studying Ion Transfer across Liquid–Liquid Interfaces[J].Journal of Physical Chemistry B,2024,128 (8):1987-1999,American Chemical Society
摘要：We have developed a general scheme for refining classical polarizable molecular dynamics (MD) force fields that can accurately describe the molecular interactions in systems with liquid–liquid interfaces. Whileab initioMD (AIMD) simulations can naturally describe molecular interactions, they are often so computationally expensive that simulating large system sizes and/or long time scales is usually infeasible. To resolve this, we parameterized efficient and accurate classical polarizable force fields that use AIMD reference data by minimizing both the relative entropy and the root mean squared deviation in atomic forces. We utilized our new multiscale models to study chloride ion transfer across the water–dichloromethane (DCM) interface with and without the tetraethylammonium cation as the phase-transfer catalyst. Our calculated free-energy barrier for the water–DCM interface is consistent with the other reported simulation results. We further analyzed the ion-transfer process by studying the hydration shell structures around the chloride ion and the ion-pair formation to better understand the mechanism. We observed that electronic polarizability is an important factor for the studied phase-transfer catalyst to lower the free-energy barrier of the ion transfer. Using the water–benzene interface system as an additional example, we show that our parameterization scheme provides a general route for modeling different liquid–liquid interface systems even when the experimental data or force field parameters are not readily available.
[95] Néstor Balcázar-Arciniega,Joaquim Rigola,Carlos D. Pérez-Segarra ,等.Numerical study of the drag force, interfacial area and mass transfer in bubbles in a vertical pipe[J].Chemical Engineering Journal,2024,495 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A systematic numerical study of drag force and mass transfer in gravity-driven bubbles in a vertical pipe is performed at Re∼O(100−1000). This research employs a parallel multi-marker unstructured conservative level set method for interface capturing, avoiding the numerical coalescence in bubble swarms. The finite volume method discretizes transport equations on 3D collocated unstructured meshes. Unstructured flux limiter schemes solve the convective term of transport equations, preserving the numerical stability at high Reynolds numbers and high-density ratios. Thermodynamic equilibrium is assumed at the interface for the concentration of chemical species. The hydrodynamics and mass transfer of bubbles are validated against classical correlations from the literature. Finally, direct simulations are executed to develop new correlations for the drag force, normalized bubble surface and Sherwood number for bubbles in a vertical pipe. © 2024 The Author(s)
[96] Zengzeng Wang,Hongwei Ma,Yi Yang ,等.Information transfer between tip leakage vortex and blade aerodynamic force of a compressor cascade[J].Aerospace Science and Technology,2024,153 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The compressor blade exhibits intricate flow patterns near stall conditions, with the tip leakage vortex and the main flow shedding vortex from the blade's trailing edge identified as factors influencing the blade's aerodynamic force oscillation. The tip leakage vortex is recognized as the primary contributor to flow structures during non-synchronous vibration (NSV), although existing compressor NSV reduced order models often attribute the fluid oscillation to the passage flow shedding vortex. A tool capable of distinguishing between flow structures and blade aerodynamic force is crucial for resolving this discrepancy. Detached eddy simulations (DES) in a compressor cascade form the basis for gathering data on vortex structures and blade aerodynamic force. This study employs an information thesis method to elucidate the cause-and-effect relationship between the tip leakage vortex and blade aerodynamic force. Through a series of unsteady single passage simulations and experimental validation, the mechanisms leading to variations in blade aerodynamic force are demonstrated. Notably, this research utilizes Proper Orthogonal Decomposition (POD) mode time coefficients in span and axial directions to represent dynamic information on vortex structures. Additionally, transfer entropy is introduced as a metric to evaluate the causal interaction between turbulent flow of the tip leakage and the blade's aerodynamic force, marking a significant advancement. The analysis of information transfer entropy aids in identifying the vortex structure with a stronger relationship to aerodynamic force, a critical finding. By applying this approach, the study examines tip leakage vortex structures in various tip clearance sizes concerning aerodynamic force. The Tip3C and Tip5C tip geometries exhibit tip leakage vortex features with radial vortex characteristics and backflow, akin to structures associated with non-synchronous vibration. These tip vortex structures in the Tip3C and Tip5C tip
[97] Xiao, Yipeng,Zhou, Chaoyang,He, Chang ,等.Mechanism analysis of force transfer at joint of asymmetric V-shaped steel pylon and concrete base of cable-stayed bridge[J].建筑科学与工程学报,2025,42 (1):148-156,Editorial Department of Journal of Architecture and Civil Engineering
摘要：In order to alleviate the stiffness steep change from the pylon column to the base, a local structural optimization method of setting U-shaped stiffeners in the box section at the steel pylon bottom was proposed and the finite element model was established. The stress of the concrete cap, base, steel anchor box and steel pylon bottom area were calculated. On the basis, the stress at the connection between the pylon bottom and bearing plate and the influence of the weld defects in the box were analyzed. The interfacial stress between the bearing plate and the concrete base was studied, and the contribution of each component to the internal force transfer of the joint was discussed. The results show that setting U-shaped stiffeners in the bottom box of the steel pylon can effectively reduce the peak stress. Under the typical most unfavorable load combination, the stresses of each part of the steel-concrete joint do not exceed the limit. Under the condition of minimum axial force and maximum bending moment, the weld between the column bottom panel, the rib plate and the bearing plate is almost under pressure and can meet the weld strength requirements. When there are quality defects in the welding inside the column bottom box, the stress in the nearby panel and bearing plate increases, but part of the pressure can still be transmitted at the connection between the rib plate and the bearing plate. There is no detachment risk between the bearing plate and the concrete base under two load conditions. The vertical pressure at the pylon bottom is mainly transmitted to the concrete directly by the bearing plate, while the shear force is mostly transmitted through the anchor box. © 2025, Editorial Department of Journal of Architecture and Civil Engineering. All rights reserved.
[98] Jure Štrucl,Jure Marn,Matej Zadravec .Numerical modelling of conjugate heat transfer in force convective flow environment using a combined boiling model (CBM)[J].Results in Engineering,2025,26 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Subcooled flow boiling is a crucial heat transfer mechanism in which the fluid temperature exceeds its saturation point, leading to phase change. Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) is a powerful tool for investigating such phenomena. However, commonly used CFD wall boiling models, such as the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) model, may under-predict convective heat transfer in flow boiling conditions, do not account for conjugate heat transfer (CHT), and often fail to accurately capture vapour flow behaviour after vapour detachment. This study presents a new model, named the <strong>Combined Boiling Model (CBM)</strong>, which integrates CHT, wall boiling, and flow evaporation/condensation to improve predictive accuracy. Simulation results were compared against experimental data, demonstrating that the CBM accurately predicts heat transfer in channel flows with inlet velocities up to <strong>1 m/s</strong> and heat fluxes up to <strong>1.7 × 10⁶ W/m²</strong>.
[99] Luo, Zhenghang,Li, Jingyu,Chen, Weixiong ,等.Numerical simulation of heat transfer characteristic and bubble force analysis of low flow rate vapor condensation under rolling motion[J].化工学报,2024,75 (8):2800-2811,Materials China
摘要：Steam direct contact condensation has high efficiency in heat and mass transfer and is widely used in nuclear energy safety and other fields. Compared with the stable condition on land, the swing movement under the marine conditions may exacerbate the oscillation of the auto liquid interface and further affect the safe operation of the equipment. Therefore, the condensation process of low flow rate steam under rolling conditions was studied by numerical simulation, and the changes of pressure, heat transfer characteristics and bubble forces under rolling conditions were analyzed. The results showed that the sharp fluctuations of pressure and heat transfer coefficient mainly concentrated in the phase of bubble shrinkage and separation, when the bubble forces also reached the maximum, and the bubble was mainly affected by the inertia force and condensation force. In addition, it is found that the inertia force partially increases due to the change of bubble velocity under the rolling condition, and the additional rolling velocity brought by the rolling motion strengthens the heat transfer performance of the vapor-liquid interface, and the average heat transfer coefficient is much higher than that under the stationary condition. © 2024 Materials China. All rights reserved.
[100] Hu, Yandong,Dong, Wenbo,Li, Xiang ,等.Active Regulation of Electromagnetic Force in Wireless Power Transfer Systems[J].Electronics,2024,13 (8),MDPI
摘要：To reduce the interference from the electromagnetic force caused by coupling coils due to distance changes in a wireless power transfer (WPT) system, this paper conducts a theoretical analysis of the factors influencing the electromagnetic force experienced by the receiving coil. Maxwell electromagnetic simulation is used for modeling and analysis, revealing the trends in the electromagnetic force exerted on the receiving coil. Based on this analysis, a method is proposed that actively adjusts the working frequency of WPT to alter the current phases of the transmitting and receiving coils, thereby regulating the magnitude of the force on the receiving coil. Finally, mechanical tests, including torque experiments, were conducted to validate the proposed method. The electromagnetic force on the coil in the microgravity isolation platform of a space station was reduced from 961 mu N to 113 mu N, a level which plays an important role in improving the microgravity index of the system.
[101] Wang, Wenjie,Tan, Jie,Wang, Han ,等.Self-Powered and Self-Recoverable Multimodal Force Sensors Based on Trap State and Interfacial Electron Transfer[J].Angewandte Chemie - International Edition,2024,63 (24),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：Multi-dimensional force sensing that combines intensity, location, area and the like could gather a wealth of information from mechanical stimuli. Developing materials with force-induced optical and electrical dual responses would provide unique opportunities to multi-dimensional force sensing, with electrical signals quantifying the force amplitude and the luminescence output providing spatial distribution of force. However, the reliance on external power supply and high-energy excitation source brings significant challenges to the applicability of multi-dimensional force sensors. Here we reported the mechanical energy-driven and sunlight-activated materials with force-induced dual responses, and investigated the underlying mechanisms of self-sustainable force sensing. Theoretical analysis and experimental data unraveled that trap-controlled luminescence and interfacial electron transfer play a major role in force-induced optical and electrical output. These materials were manufactured into pressure sensor with renewable dual-mode output for quantifying and visualization of pressures by electrical and optical output, respectively, without power supply and high-energy irradiation. The quantification of tactile sensation and stimuli localization of mice highlighted the multi-dimensional sensing ability of the sensor. Overall, this self-powered pressure sensor with multimodal output provides more modalities of force sensing, poised to change the way that intelligent devices sense with the world. Multimodal force sensor: A self-powered and self-recoverable force sensor based on trap-controlled luminescence and interfacial electron transfer is presented. The magnitude of force can be converted into electrical responses, and force distribution can be visualized by optical signals simultaneously, without any power supply and high-energy irradiation. It has promising applications in a wide range of artificial intelligence systems. image
[102] Ramos, Alexandre C. R.,Melo, Cesar A. P.,alvarez-Briceno, Ricardo ,等.Kalman-based force identification applied to vibration transfer path analysis[J].Journal of the Brazilian Society of Mechanical Sciences and Engineering,2024,47 (1):1-18,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：One of the main goals and critical steps of a transfer path analysis campaign is the identification of operational forces. Installing force sensors for direct measurements in the transfer paths is either impractical or may significantly change the system's dynamics, which leads to a range of estimation methods with varying degrees of accuracy and complexity. Recently, a Kalman filtering technique with dummy measurements was proposed as an inverse estimation method based only on acceleration data. To avoid drifts in the estimated forces, the dummy sensors' experimental covariance is included in the uncertainty model. Such an approach seeks to reduce the design and validation phases of a product's life cycle through non-intrusive force measurement techniques. This work analyses the effectiveness of this method to identify multiple inputs in an academic powertrain test rig, which allows for direct force measurements. Results show a good correlation between actual forces and those estimated via the proposed method, validating the Kalman filter with dummy measures as a reliable alternative to the classic TPA method.
[103] Zeng, Chen,Zeng, Xiangliang,Cheng, Xiaxia ,等.Design of Thermal Interface Materials with Excellent Interfacial Heat/Force Transfer Ability via Hierarchical Energy Dissipation[J].Advanced Functional Materials,2024,34 (41),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：Interfaces play an important role in the heat and stress transfer within applications such as electronic cooling. The coexistence of apparently contradictory properties between heat dissipation and adhesion at interfaces poses a constant challenge for existing interface materials. Herein, a thermal interface material is reported, consisting of epoxy-functionalized polydimethylsiloxane and aluminum fillers with excellent interfacial heat/force transfer ability. This material optimizes the combination of thermal conductivity of 3.46 W m-1 K-1 and adhesion energy of 1.17 kJ m-2. Using two viscoelastic models, the excellent interfacial force transfer ability is attributed to a hierarchical energy dissipation via the introduction of borate ester bonds and the aluminum filler networks. A simple kinetic bond model demonstrates that the borate ester bonds increase molecular chain segment mobility, allowing full extension at debonding interface for stress dispersion and efficient energy dissipation. The aluminum filler networks not only facilitate thermal transfer, but also dissipate the mechanical energy during filler network destruction due to the bond breakage between fillers. The excellent heat dispassion and mechanical stability are further demonstrated when this thermal interface material is used in flexible light emitting diodes and high-power chips. This work provides a new strategy for balancing interfacial heat and force transfer. To address the interfacial heat/force transfer problem, realizing the joint improvement of adhesion energy and thermal conductivity, a method for hierarchical energy dissipation is proposed in this paper. A thermal interface material, a borate ester bond-reinforced and epoxy-functionalized polydimethylsiloxane filled aluminum filler composite elastomer, is used as a research model to achieve high adhesion energy (1.17 kJ m-2) and thermal conductivity (3.46 W m-1 K-1). image
[104] Bo Luo,Mingfang Ma,Aiyou Hao ,等.Arene-perfluoroarene force driven chiral transfer,chiral amplification and chiral inversion[J].Chinese Chemical Letters,2026,37 (1):333-337,Elsevier B.V.
摘要：Co-assembling chiral molecules with achiral compounds via non-covalent interactions like areneperfluoroarene(AP) interactions offers an effective approach for fabricating chiral functional ***,chiral molecules L/D-PF1 and L/D-PF2 with pyrene groups were synthesized and its chiroptical properties upon co-assembly with achiral compound octafluoronaphthalene(OFN) through AP interaction were systemically *** co-assembly of L/D-PF1/OFN and L/D-PF2/OFN exhibited distinct chiroptical properties such as circular dichroism(CD) and circularly polarized luminescence(CPL) *** transfer from the chirality center of L/D-PF1 and L/D-PF2 to the achiral OFN and chiral amplification were successfully ***,no significant CPL signal was observed in the self-assembly of L/DPF1 or L/D-PF2 while co-assembly with OFN exhibited obvious CPL amplification induced by AP ***,a reversal CD signal and CPL signal could be observed in L/D-PF2/OFN when the molar ratio changed from 1:1 to 1:2 while not found in L/D-PF1/OFN,indicating that that minor structural changes of molecules could cause large changes in *** addition,a series of computational calculations were conducted to verify the AP interaction between L-PF1/L-PF2 and *** work demonstrated that arene-perfluoroarene interaction could drive chiral transfer,chiral amplification and chiral inversion and provided a new method for the preparation of chiroptical materials.
[105] Wang, Haopeng,Wang, He,Dai, Chenyun ,等.Improved Surface Electromyogram-Based Hand-Wrist Force Estimation Using Deep Neural Networks and Cross-Joint Transfer Learning[J].Sensors,2024,24 (22):7301,MDPI
摘要：Deep neural networks (DNNs) and transfer learning (TL) have been used to improve surface electromyogram (sEMG)-based force estimation. However, prior studies focused mostly on applying TL within one joint, which limits dataset size and diversity. Herein, we investigated cross-joint TL between two upper-limb joints with four DNN architectures using sliding windows. We used two feedforward and two recurrent DNN models with feature engineering and feature learning, respectively. We found that the dependencies between sEMG and force are short-term (<400 ms) and that sliding windows are sufficient to capture them, suggesting that more complicated recurrent structures may not be necessary. Also, using DNN architectures reduced the required sliding window length. A model pre-trained on elbow data was fine-tuned on hand-wrist data, improving force estimation accuracy and reducing the required training data amount. A convolutional neural network with a 391 ms sliding window fine-tuned using 20 s of training data had an error of 6.03 +/- 0.49% maximum voluntary torque, which is statistically lower than both our multilayer perceptron model with TL and a linear regression model using 40 s of training data. The success of TL between two distinct joints could help enrich the data available for future deep learning-related studies.
[106] Iwasaki, Hiroto,Fujimoto, Keisuke,Banno, Koki ,等.Electron Transfer Enhanced by a Minimal Energetic Driving Force at the Organic-Semiconductor Interface[J].Angewandte Chemie - International Edition,2024,63 (37),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：The energetic driving force for electron transfer must be minimized to realize efficient optoelectronic devices including organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) and organic photovoltaics (OPVs). Exploring the dynamics of a charge-transfer (CT) state at an interface leads to a comprehension of the relationship between energetics, electron-transfer efficiency, and device performance. Here, we investigate the electron transfer from the CT state to the triplet excited state (T-1) in upconversion OLEDs with 45 material combinations. By analyzing the CT emission and the singlet excited-state emission from triplet-triplet annihilation via the dark T-1, their energetics and electron-transfer efficiencies are extracted. We demonstrate that the CT -> T-1 electron transfer is enhanced by the stronger CT interaction and a minimal energetic driving force (<0.1 eV), which is explained using the Marcus theory with a small reorganization energy of <0.1 eV. Through our analysis, a novel donor-acceptor combination for the OLED is developed and shows an efficient blue emission with an extremely low turn-on voltage of 1.57 V. This work provides a solution to control interfacial CT states for efficient optoelectronic devices without energy loss.
[107] Conor Rowan,Kurt Maute,Alireza Doostan .Physics-informed solution reconstruction in elasticity and heat transfer using the explicit constraint force method[J].Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,2025,446, Part B ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A popular use case of physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) is solution reconstruction, which aims to estimate the full-field state of a physical system from sparse measurements. Parameterized governing equations of the system are used in tandem with the measurements to regularize the regression problem. However, in real-world solution reconstruction problems, the parameterized governing equation may be inconsistent with the physical phenomena that give rise to the measurement data. Our contributions in this work are threefold: first, we show that due to assuming consistency between the true and parameterized physics, PINNs-based approaches may fail to satisfy three basic criteria of interpretability, robustness, and data consistency. As we argue, these criteria ensure that (i) the quality of the reconstruction can be assessed, (ii) the reconstruction does not depend strongly on the choice of physics loss, and (iii) that in certain situations, the physics parameters can be uniquely recovered. Second, in the context of elasticity and heat transfer, we demonstrate how standard formulations of the physics loss and techniques for constraining the solution to respect the measurement data lead to different “constraint forces”—which we define as additional source terms arising from the constraints—and that these constraint forces can significantly influence the reconstructed solution. Third, to avoid the potentially substantial influence of the choice of physics loss and method of constraint enforcement on the reconstructed solution, we propose the “explicit constraint force method” (ECFM) to gain control of the source term introduced by the constraint. We then show that by satisfying the criteria of interpretability, robustness, and data consistency, this approach leads to more predictable and customizable reconstructions from noisy measurement data, even when the parameterization of the missing physics is inconsistent with the measured system.
[108] Boudjemline, Attia,Majeed, Aaqib,Ijaz, Nouman ,等.A novel approach to antimicrobial strategies using heat transfer rate micropolar nanofluids with angular momentum and Lorentz force-enhanced[J].ZAMM - Journal of Applied Mathematics and Mechanics / Zeitschrift für Angewandte Mathematik und Mechanik,2025,105 (9),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：The Arrhenius activation energy concept is a fundamental principle in thermal engineering, providing insights into chemical reactions, material degradation, and heat transfer processes at elevated temperatures. This principle is crucial for designing efficient heat transfer systems and fluid-based applications where precise viscosity control is essential. A study focusing on a three-dimensional Casson nanofluid flow across an extended porous surface was conducted using the Navier-Stokes theory and MATLAB to implement a novel numerical approach based on the three-stage Lobatto IIIA technique. This study offers valuable insights into how various parameters influence the flow characteristics of Casson nanofluids, with significant implications across multiple engineering disciplines. Increasing the magnetic parameter introduces a Lorentz force that reduces flow velocity and elevates temperature, which is particularly relevant for systems employing magnetohydrodynamic flow control. Elevating the Eckert number enhances temperature and velocity profiles while diminishing heat transfer and shear stress, crucial for designing systems where viscous dissipation plays a significant role. A comprehensive understanding of nanofluid behavior is essential in microfluidics for developing lab-on-a-chip devices and micro-scale heat exchangers, where precise thermal management is vital. The findings can inform the design of artificial organs and drug delivery systems in biomedical engineering, where controlling fluid dynamics and thermal properties is crucial for functionality and patient safety. Insights into fluid behavior under varying thermal conditions can aid in optimizing energy systems, including solar thermal collectors, geothermal units, and advanced nuclear reactors, leading to improved efficiency and performance. Understanding temperature-dependent flow behavior benefits processes like metal casting and polymer extrusion, ensuring product quality and consistency in the mate
[109] Shohei Horike,Vikas Nandal,Qingshuo Wei ,等.Contributions of Both the Eastman Entropy of Transfer and Electric Double Layer to the Electromotive Force of Ionic Thermoelectric Supercapacitors[J].ACS Applied Materials and Interfaces,2025,17 (3):4984-4995,American Chemical Society
摘要：Recently, ionic thermoelectric supercapacitors have gained attention because of their high open circuit voltages, even for ions that are redox inactive. As a source of open circuit voltage (electromotive force), an asymmetry in electric double layers developed by the adsorption of ions at the electrode surfaces kept at different temperatures has previously been proposed. As another source, the Eastman entropy of transfer, which is related to the Soret coefficient, has been considered. Herein, we theoretically estimated the open circuit voltages generated in the Stern layer, the diffuse layer and by the Eastman entropy of transfer. The Grahame equation has been generalized to consider the temperature gradient in the diffuse layer. The ion coverage difference between the hot and cold electrodes and the open circuit voltage are obtained by solving self-consistent equations using the adsorption isotherm. The results are compared with experimental results using a metal electrode and a conductive polymer-based electrode. We show the possible origin of the high ionic Seebeck effect caused by the asymmetry in the coverages of adsorbed ions in terms of the various types of interface capacitance factor at the hot and cold electrodes.
[110] Lee, Seyoung,Lim, Kitaek,Choi, Woochol Joseph .Characterizing the Compressive Force at L5/S1 During Patient Transfer From Bed to Wheelchair[J].Journal of Applied Biomechanics,2024,40 (5):357-363,HUMAN KINETICS PUBL INC
摘要：The peak compressive forces at L5/S1 during patient transfers have been estimated. However, no study has considered the actual patient body weight that caregivers had to handle during transfers. We developed a simple kinematic model of lifting to address this limitation. Fifteen prospective health care providers transferred a 70-kg individual who mimicked a patient ( " patient " ) from bed to wheelchair. Trials were acquired with the patient donning (weighted) and dof fi ng (unweighted) a 5-kg weight belt. Trials were also acquired with and without knee assistance and a mechanical lift. During trials, kinematics and kinetics of transfers were recorded to estimate the peak compressive force at L5/S1 using static equilibrium equations. The peak compressive force was associated with the transfer method ( P < .0005), and the compressive force was 68% lower in lift-assisted than manual transfer (2230 [SD = 433] N vs 6875 [SD = 2307] N). However, the peak compressive force was not associated with knee assistance, nor with a change in the patient body weight. Our results inform that mechanical loading exceeding the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health safety criterion occurs during patient transfers, con fi rming a high risk of lower back injuries in caregivers. However, the risk can be mitigated with the use of a mechanical lift.
[111] Yi Song,Rui Zhang,Yuqing Hao .Digital economy, labor force transfer, and high-quality agricultural development[J].Finance Research Letters,2025,74 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study investigates the impact of the digital economy on high-quality agricultural development in China, using data from 285 prefecture-level cities between 2012 and 2022. Results show a significant positive spatial autocorrelation for the digital economy and high-quality agricultural development globally. Local digital economies drive agricultural development with limited regional spillovers. Heterogeneity exists, with the eastern regions benefiting more, and labor transfer plays a key role.
[112] Li, Yingyi,Yan, Ziwei,Dai, Yueming ,等.Mechanical Force Promotes Mitochondrial Transfer From Macrophages to BMSCs to Enhance Bone Formation[J].Cell Proliferation,2026,59 (5),WILEY
摘要：Macrophages and bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) share a close relationship within the osteoimmune microenvironment. During mechanically induced bone formation, macrophages respond to stimuli and regulate this microenvironment, influencing BMSCs' proliferation and differentiation. However, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. In our study, we employed a cellular tension system and found that mechanical tension altered mitochondrial dynamics in macrophages, leading to increased mitochondrial fission. Using a macrophage-BMSC direct co-culture system, we demonstrated that macrophages transferred mitochondria to BMSCs, a process enhanced by tension. This enhancement was associated with Drp1-mediated mitochondrial fission, as Drp1 knockdown in macrophages abolished the effect. Additionally, using in vitro co-culture and in vivo tibial injection models, we found that mitochondria-rich extracellular vesicles (Mito-EVs) secreted by mechanically stretched macrophages promoted BMSCs' osteogenesis and enhanced bone formation via the CD200 receptor (CD200R)-CD200 interaction. Our findings reveal a pivotal role for mitochondrial transfer in promoting osteogenesis during mechanotransduction, highlighting a novel mechanism of intercellular communication in bone biology.
[113] Okubo, Ryoichi,Yamaguchi, Atsuhiro,Kobuchi, Daisuke ,等.Single-Core Dual Coils in Wireless Power Transfer Systems with Force-Display Functions[M],2024,IEEE
摘要：Conventional wireless power transfer technologies primarily focus on wireless charging devices, overlooking the impact of mechanical connections, such as cable tension on user interfaces. In contrast, we are exploring a wireless power transfer system with force-display functions to enable users to intuitively perceive the power supply status of electronic devices. The system used a permanent magnet on the receiver side and an electromagnet on the transmitter side. The charging status of the electronic device can be intuitively displayed to the user by adjusting the electromagnet based on the circumstances. In this paper, we present the design and implementation of single-core dual coils that realize both electromagnetic and wireless power transfer coils in a single core. Through experimental evaluations, the generation of attractive and repulsive forces up to approximately 2 N was confirmed in terms of the electromagnetic force. In addition, the maximum power transfer efficiency reached 87%.
[114] Golam Azom,Toheeb O Balogun,Anne Milet ,等.Probing oxidation-controlled proton transfer at the graphene oxide-water interface with deep neural network force fields[J].Chemical Communications,2025,61 (78):15223-15226,Elsevier Science
摘要：Understanding proton transfer at the aqueous graphene oxide (GO) interface is essential for developing and designing GO-based proton exchange membranes for fuel cells. By comparing GO sheets with two different oxidation levels using deep potential molecular dynamics (DPMD) simulations, we find that oxidized GO promotes interfacial proton release while reduced GO adsorbs protons.
[115] Schmid, Sebastian,Kaufmann, Dorit,Dahmen, Ulrich ,等.Force and Stress Simulation in Experimentable Digital Twins Using the Transfer Matrix Method[J].Applied Mechanics,2025,6 (1),MDPI
摘要：Experimentable Digital Twins are capable of combining different simulation domains on a system level. This has been shown for a multitude of simulation domains, e.g., rigid body dynamics, control, sensors, kinematics, etc., and application scenarios, e.g., automotive, space, and industrial engineering. In our work, we investigate how to include structural loads into an Experimentable Digital Twin while maintaining computational efficiency and interoperability on a system level. We combine rigid body dynamics with the transfer matrix method to simulate forces and stresses. We show our approach for statically determinate beam structures in a simulation on a system level and validate it experimentally and numerically with static and dynamic example problems. The results show a strong agreement in these comparisons, confirming the accuracy and reliability of our method. For practical applications, we see force and stress simulation using the transfer matrix method as an additional tool to facilitate simulation-based engineering in the early stages of structural design processes, e.g., when dealing with uncertain loading conditions and operational complexity on a system level.
[116] Li, Liuyan,Qu, Manman .Digital economy, transfer of agricultural labor force and agricultural land production efficiency[J].Frontiers in Environmental Science,2025,13 ,FRONTIERS MEDIA SA
摘要：The digital economy has emerged as a new driving force and engine for China's economic growth. However, given the current shortage of production factors, whether the digital economy positively impacts agricultural land productivity remains to be further confirmed. This study employs balanced panel data from 31 Chinese provinces between 2009 and 2023, constructs a three-tier indicator framework, and measures China's digital economy development level using the entropy method. The research explores the impact and mechanisms of the digital economy on agricultural productivity. Key findings include: (1) Bidirectional fixed-effects models demonstrate that the digital economy significantly enhances agricultural productivity, supported by endogeneity tests, robustness checks, and threshold analysis. (2) Heterogeneity analysis reveals stronger productivity improvements in eastern, central, and northeastern regions, particularly in major grain-producing areas. (3) Mediation tests confirm that the digital economy boosts agricultural productivity by facilitating labor mobility. Based on these conclusions, policy recommendations are proposed: fundamentally improving rural digital infrastructure, establishing region-specific development frameworks, and strengthening support for digital agriculture entities. These measures provide practical pathways to enhance agricultural productivity.
[117] Sethy, Priyabrata,Kumar, Amit,Ray, Atul K. ,等.Heat transfer performance in a hybrid nanoliquid enclosure with a hot inner circular obstacle under Lorentz force effect[J].Journal of Thermal Analysis and Calorimetry,2025,150 (1):395-412,SPRINGER
摘要：The heat transport efficiency inside an enclosure has been harnessed in different applications including heat exchangers, solar collectors, and electronic devices. Hybrid nanoliquids conduct higher heat transport than mono nanoliquid. This research deals with the performance of heat transport within square chamber filled with hybrid nanofluid featuring a heated inner circular obstacle. The used hybrid nanofluid is amalgamation of uniform and equal amount of MgO and Ag nanoadditives in water as a host liquid. The square chamber is under the Lorentz force effect. Further, the chamber is isothermally heated/cooled from the lower surface and vertical surfaces, respectively, while upper wall is thermally insulated. The coupled partial differential equations have been solved using a CFD (Computational fluid dynamics) package named Comsol Multiphysics, advanced simulation software. Comsol Multiphysics is solver of finite element problems. The impact of key parameters such as the Rayleigh and Hartmann numbers, nanoparticles concentration fraction, and inclined angle of Lorentz force on thermal convection is studied in details. The computational examination has been conducted in a wide range of key characteristics viz. Ra = 103-106, Ha = 0-100 and phi = 0.01, 0.02. The performed validation has shown a good agreement with numerical outcomes of other authors. The streamlines strength is raised rapidly for higher Ra. Highest velocity magnitude is near arc length L = 1.5. With rise of Ha, the isotherms formed at the left and right wall are reduced. The inclination angle of Lorentz force is significantly affecting the energy transport. The study is relevant in optimizing the cooling of electronic system within device where reducing temperature within the device is essential in order to prevent overheating and make sure the reliability of the electronic devices. The findings hold promise for different applications including electronics cooling and heat exchangers.
[118] Seyhan, Ercan,Keser, Ahmet .Is Oleoresin Capsicum (Pepper Gas) A Safe Way of Implementing Force for Riot Control?- A Force Continuum Policy Transfer[J].Salus Journal,2025,13 (1):64-82,CHARLES STURT UNIV
摘要：Police forces sometimes carry out duties under life-threatening conditions. In such situations, police should quickly determine the appropriate level of the continuum of force to establish better law and order. Pepper gas became a strong method for balancing force to control the riots. The main purpose of law enforcement in OC exposure is to support the force continuum levels' effectiveness within human rights understanding, to stop the assailants' actions, and to decrease the risk of getting injured both by the police and riots. Pepper gas is not a substitute for weapons at the force continuum levels, but it is a supporting means of force implementation during riots. Although the police use of force was born of the idea of preventing the suspect from harming himself or the other party, this situation is closely related to reliability. This study aims to review the scientific literature on OC's long- and short-term effects, investigate the legal regulations governing the force continuum through a policy transfer approach, and propose two additional levels of pepper gas use to end disproportionate force discussions by implementing pepper gas usage after verbal warning and before baton use.
[119] Hajian, Gelareh,Campbell, Evan,Ansari, Mahdi ,等.Generalizing Upper Limb Force Modeling With Transfer Learning: A Multimodal Approach Using EMG and IMU for New Users and Conditions[J].IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering,2024,32 :391-400,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：In the field of EMG-based force modeling, the ability to generalize models across individuals could play a significant role in its adoption across a range of applications, including assistive devices, robotic and rehabilitation devices. However, current studies have predominately focused on intra-subject modeling, largely neglecting the burden of end-user data acquisition. In this work, we propose the use of transfer learning (TL) to generalize force modeling to a new user by first establishing a baseline model trained using other users' data, and then adapting to the end-user using a small amount of new data (only 10%, 20%, and 40% of the new user data). Using a deep multimodal convolutional neural network, consisting of two CNN models, one with high-density (HD) EMG and one with motion data recorded by an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), our proposed TL technique significantly improved force modeling compared to leave-one-subject out (LOSO) and even intra-subject scenarios. The TL approach increased the average R squared values of the force modeling task by 60.81%, 190.53%, and 199.79% compared to the LOSO case, and by 13.4%, 36.88%, and 45.51% compared to the intra-subject case for isotonic, isokinetic and dynamic conditions, respectively. These results show that it is possible to adapt to a new user with minimal data while improving performance significantly compared to the intra-subject scenario. We also show that TL can be used to generalize on a new experimental condition for a new user.
[120] Rui Pang,Tianpeng Zhang,Guangkai Song ,等.Enhancing the bidirectional force transfer performance of untopped precast concrete floor using steel-based hybrid connectors: Experimental and theoretical analyses[J].Journal of Building Engineering,2026,118 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The untopped precast concrete (PC) floor systems exhibit advantages, such as a high degree of component standardization, elevated construction efficiency, and excellent energy-saving and emission-reduction performance, leading to their widespread attention and application worldwide. Among these systems, the slab joint connectors play a crucial role in ensuring the structural integrity and diaphragm performance of the untopped PC floors. Currently, the most commonly used untopped PC floor is the double-tee (DT) floor. However, its slab joint connectors are primarily designed to transfer in-plane loads and contribute minimally to enhancing the vertical load-bearing capacity of the DT floor. In this context, an innovative discretely connected PC floor (DCPCF) system utilizing steel-based hybrid connectors was proposed. An experimental analysis program consisting of two DCPCF specimens and one cast-in-situ specimen was conducted to investigate the load transfer performance of steel-based hybrid connectors and the bidirectional mechanical behavior of DCPCF. The test results showed that the steel-based hybrid connectors effectively transfer internal forces between adjacent PC slabs, enabling the DCPCF specimen to achieve load-bearing capacity comparable to a cast-in-situ floor. Due to stress concentration at discontinuous slab joints, the DCPCF specimen exhibited reduced initial stiffness and cracking load, along with the absence of a distinct yield plateau in its load-displacement curve. Since the majority of perforated steel plates and their anchor bars remained within the elastic range during loading, the DCPCF specimens exhibited significantly smaller residual deformation than the CIS specimen after unloading, demonstrating superior deformation recovery capacity. Subsequently, refined finite-element (RFE) models for DCPCF were developed and experimentally validated. Leveraging these verified RFE models, parametric studies were conducted to investigate the effects of j
[121] La, Ju A.,Whang, Keumrai,Lee, Hyunjoo ,等.Facile Scalable Assembly of Uniform and Layered Plasmonic Hotspots by Force-Assisted Capillary-Mediated Colloidal Transfer[J].Small,2026,22 (1),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：Three-dimensional (3D) assembly of colloidal metal nanoparticles for plasmonic detections has been prepared by Langmuir-Blodgett (LB) deposition. However, due to the small focal volume of an incident light, it suffers from laser spot-to-spot variations in near-field intensities, which undermines signal uniformity, thereby hindering its widespread use. Here, a facile and scalable method to fabricate focal volume-comparable is presented, uniform 3D architectures of plasmonic hotspots by devising the force-assisted, capillary-mediated stacking of colloidal metal nanoparticles. By deploying only a few pN per nanoparticle, it is shown that the method quickly produces multiple monolayers with lateral sizes in the submillimeter range, in which surface uniformity with a small variation of 4% is improved by approximate to 30% compared to the LB deposition. The simulation suggests that the volume fraction of electromagnetic field enhancement increases with increasing the number of layers, and its intensity can be maximized by more than 100% by simply stacking the monolayers. Additionally, tailoring the size of the void of the 3D assembly leads to a four orders of magnitude increase in the sensitivity of the Raman detection. It is indicated that the method can greatly improve the practical utility of colloidal metal nanoparticles for sensing applications from biomedicine to biomanufacturing.
[122] Wang, Qu,Han, Xiangyu,Fang, Ziming ,等.Interface Force Transfer Mechanism of Internal Prestressing and Section Enlargement Composite Reinforcement in PC Box Girder Bridges[J].Buildings,2026,16 (6),MDPI
摘要：To address issues such as web and bottom plate cracking and insufficient bending capacity in in-service prestressed concrete box girder bridges, this study proposes internal prestressing and section enlargement composite reinforcement. Firstly, taking a bridge of Shenhai Expressway as the background project, the combined reinforcement method is designed and the reinforcement effect is analyzed by MIDAS/Civil. Secondly, through numerical analysis, the influence of the bond shrinkage of self-compacting concrete with different mix ratios on the stress of the web of the original box girder is analyzed, and the interface between the new and old concrete is carried out. The analysis of the loss of the new prestress on the bonding surface of the new and old concrete is carried out by parameters such as the interface planting rate, the interface shear stiffness and the reinforcement structure. Furthermore, the theoretical calculation method of prestress loss rate of new and old concrete bonding interface is obtained. The results show that the flexural capacity of the normal section of the main beam is significantly improved after reinforcement, and the surplus coefficient is 1.18, which meets the requirements of the secondary safety level, and the mid-span deflection is improved by 34.28%, which verifies the effectiveness and feasibility of the combined reinforcement method. When the content of fly ash is 54%, the bond shrinkage strain and shrinkage stress of self-compacting concrete are reduced to the lowest level, which has the least influence on the existing box girder structure. It is suggested that the reinforcement ratio between the new and old concrete interface is 0.6%, and the interface roughness is 0.9 mm, which can increase the shear resistance of the new and old concrete interface and effectively reduce the transfer loss of prestress at the interface. Error analysis shows that the proposed semi-empirical calculation method has high accuracy with a deviation of l
[123] Schumacher, Lily A.,Groves, Norman R.,Conway, Daniel E. ,等.Characterizing force transfer across Arabidopsis thaliana linc complexes[J].Biophysical Journal,2025,124 (3),CELL PRESS
[124] Feng Guo,Jing He .Optimal allocation method of electric/air braking force of high-speed train considering axle load transfer[J].High-Speed Railway,2024,2 (2):77-84,Higher Education Press
摘要：Reasonable distribution of braking force is a factor for a smooth,safe,and comfortable braking of trains.A dynamic optimal allocation strategy of electric-air braking force is proposed in this paper to solve the problem of the lack of consideration of adhesion difference of train wheelsets in the existing high-speed train electric-air braking force optimal allocation *** this method,the braking strategy gives priority to the use of electric braking *** force model of a single train in the braking process is analyzed to calculate the change of adhesion between the wheel and rail of each wheelset after axle load transfer,and then the adhesion of the train is estimated in real ***,with the goal of maximizing the total adhesion utilization ratio of trailer/motor vehicles,a linear programming distribution function is *** proportional coefficient of adhesion utilization ratio of each train and the application upper limit of braking force in the function is updated according to the change time point of wheelset ***,the braking force is dynamically *** simulation results of Matlab/Simulink show that the proposed algorithm not only uses the different adhesion limits of each trailer to reduce the total amount of braking force undertaken by the motor vehicle,but also considers the adhesion difference of each *** strategy can effectively reduce the risk and time of motor vehicles during the braking process and improve the stability of the train braking.
[125] Parra-Montesinos, Gustavo J.,Alcocer, Sergio M.,Cuadra, Martin A. ,等.Calculation of Shear Force in Beam-Column Joints Structures assigned to SDC A and B where moment transfer is not controlled by beam flexural capacity[J].Concrete International,2026,48 (4):51-54,American Concrete Institute
[126] Laila Henkes,Kiryl Asheichyk,Matthias Krüger .Propulsion force and heat transfer for nonreciprocal nanoparticles[J].Physical Review B,2025,111 (3):035441-035441,American Physical Society
摘要：We analyze heat transfer and Casimir forces involving a nonreciprocal nanoparticle. By dissecting the resulting expressions into reciprocal and nonreciprocal contributions, we find that the particle's self-emission contains ++ and −− terms, i.e., the particle's reciprocal (+) and nonreciprocal (−) parts couple to the respective parts of its surrounding. In contrast, the heat transfer to the nanoparticle from the surrounding contains −+ and +− contributions, which we find to persist at equal temperatures. For two nanoparticles, such persistent transfer is found to require one particle to be nonreciprocal and the other to be anisotropic. The propulsion force for the nanoparticle, for which our results agree with previous work, is dominated by ±∓ terms, making it distinct from forces found for reciprocal particles. The amplitude of the propulsion force can be orders of magnitude larger than gravitational forces. Despite being distinct, we find the ±∓ terms to be bound by ±± terms, a consequence of the passivity of the objects. For the force, this bound limits the efficiency in a heat engine setup, as observed for parallel plates before.
[127] Yi-Ming Zhao,Chao Chen,Yu Meng ,等.Clean and efficient transfer of nanomaterials onto single-wall carbon nanotubes enabled by van der Waals force[J].Nano Materials Science,2025,Elsevier Science
摘要：<div id="abssec0010"><div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="abspara0010">Various nanomaterials with different morphologies and structures are playing an increasingly important role in both fundamental research and practical applications. However, it is still a big challenge to transfer them in a clean and non-damage way for structural characterizations, physiochemical property measurements, and device fabrications. Here, we report a simple van der Waals force directed transfer (VWDT) method by using the strong VW force between the single-wall carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) and nanomaterials. The VWDT method successfully avoids pollution and damage to the nanomaterials, which are usually inevitable when using a traditional transfer medium. Clear and efficient transfer of both zero-dimensional nanoparticles and two-dimensional nanosheets was demonstrated by this method. We further constructed a photodetector by using a SWCNT/transferred Au nanoparticle hybrid film, which showed an 8-time enhancement in photocurrent due to the increased light absorption and reduced resistance of the film. The VWDT method enables damage-free transfer of nanomaterials while maintaining their structural integrity, making it particularly valuable for pristine characterizations and composite material fabrication.</div></div> <div class="u-margin-s-bottom" id="abspara0010">Various nanomaterials with different morphologies and structures are playing an increasingly important role in both fundamental research and practical applications. However, it is still a big challenge to transfer them in a clean and non-damage way for structural characterizations, physiochemical property measurements, and device fabrications. Here, we report a simple van der Waals force directed transfer (VWDT) method by using the strong VW force between the single-wall carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) and nanomaterials. The VWDT method successfully avoids pollution and damage to the nanomaterials, which are usually inevitable when using
[128] Moses, Isaiah A.,Reinhart, Wesley F. .Transfer learning for multi-material classification of transition metal dichalcogenides with atomic force microscopy[J].Machine Learning: Science and Technology,2024,5 (4):045081-045081,IOP Publishing Ltd
摘要：Deep learning models based on atomic force microscopy enhance efficiency in inverse design and characterization of materials. However, the limited and imbalanced data of experimental materials that are typically available is a major challenge. Also important is the need to interpret trained models, which are normally complex enough to be uninterpretable by humans. Here, we present a systemic evaluation of transfer learning strategies to accommodate low-data scenarios in materials synthesis and a model latent feature analysis to draw connections to the human-interpretable characteristics of the samples. While we imagine this framework can be used in downstream analysis tasks such as quantitative characterization, we demonstrate the strategies on a multi-material classification task for which the ground truth labels are readily available. Our models show accurate predictions in five classes of transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) (MoS2, WS2, WSe2, MoSe2, and Mo-WSe2) with up to 89% accuracy on held-out test samples. Analysis of the latent features reveals a correlation with physical characteristics such as grain density, Difference of Gaussian blob, and local variation. The transfer learning optimization modality and the exploration of the correlation between the latent and physical features provide important frameworks that can be applied to other classes of materials beyond TMDs to enhance the models' performance and explainability which can accelerate the inverse design of materials for technological applications.
[129] Yiyang Luo,Nan Gui,Zhiyong Liu ,等.A novel contact thermal resistance model for heat transfer in granular systems: Leveraging the force-heat analogy[J].International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer,2024,232 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A novel particle-to-particle contact thermal resistance model is proposed in this study, based on the concept of analogy between force and heat transfer. The distribution of heat flux on the contact surface is assumed to resemble the distribution of stress, eliminating the issue of temperature singularity at the contact edge. The model is validated against existing theories and experiments, showing good agreement. The combined use of the model and the thermal discrete element method is applied to analyze temperature and effective thermal conductivity distributions in a pebble bed within a high-temperature test unit. The average effective thermal conductivity obtained from thermal conduction is found to be 2.99 and 2.61 W/(m·K) for power inputs of 20 kW and 82 kW, respectively. An increase in the outer wall temperature from 200 °C to 1000 °C results in an approximate 20 % increase in the effective thermal diffusivity. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd
[130] Nagai, Tatsuya,Jie, Lu,Teranishi, Satsuki ,等.Förster Resonance Energy Transfer Control by Means of an Optical Force[J].Advanced Optical Materials,2024,12 (19),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：F & ouml;rster resonance energy transfer (FRET) is ubiquitous in optical processes in the natural world. A methodology is proposed that uses an optical force to control its efficiency without contact in an aqueous solution of a thermo-responsive polymer, polyvinyl methyl ether (PVME). Focusing irradiation of a near infrared laser beam into the solution results in the formation and trapping of a single polymer droplet. The polymer concentration in the droplet is controllable by changing the optical force from the laser light is shown. The polarity inside the droplet decreases with increasing the optical force. When small amounts of dye molecules, D (energy donor) and A (energy accepter), are dissolved in the polymer solution, D and A are absorbed (extracted) into the droplet. The concentrations of D and A are controllable by the optical force. Based on this mechanism, FRET between D and A is induced successfully, and can control the FRET efficiency. Finally, the modulation of fluorescence color of the droplet from blue, green, yellow, to an orange color is demosntrated simply by changing the optical force. The concept and technique are unique and will open a new channel to develop droplet chemistry and photochemistry. This optical tweezer technique can efficiently trap polymer chains, resulting in the formation and trapping a polymer droplet at the focus. By increasing an optical force (laser power P), the local concentration of D and A in the droplet can be controlled. Accordingly, the efficiency of FRET is controllable. The blue, green, yellow, and orange fluorescence can be induced simply by changing laser power. image
[131] Fazuruddin, Syed,Arigela, Sreenivasulu,Shobha, A. ,等.INFLUENCE OF LORENTZ FORCE AND ARRHENIUS ACTIVATION ENERGY ON RADIATIVE BIO-CONVECTIVE MICROPOLAR NANOFLUID FLOW WITH MELTING HEAT TRANSFER OVER A STRETCHING SURFACE[J].East European Journal of Physics,2025,2025 (3):194-208,V N KARAZIN KHARKIV NATL UNIV
摘要：Novelty of this research is to explore an impact of Lorentz force, Arrhenius activation energy, and Conduction of Melting Heat on the micropolar fluid behaviour of steady radiative bio-convective micropolar nanofluid flow towards a stretchable surface. Using the standard similarity method, we have derived the equations of similarity for the relevant quantities of momentum, angular momentum, temperature, and concentration. The MATLAB tool 'bvp4c' is used to determine solutions to the transformed governing equations. Equations of similarity in four dimensions (momentum, angular momentum, temperature, and concentration) are numerically solved. We have examined, microrotation, velocity, concentration, temperature fields behavior for various parameters. Results show that the motile density of microorganisms decreases when the Peclet number and the microorganism concentration differential parameter are increased. Motility density increases as the Peclet number in microbial concentrations rises. Nanofluids are therefore appropriate as heat transfer fluids due to their surface cooling effect. The numerical scheme applied is validated by comparison with the previous numerical values.
[132] Ding, Shuai,Hu, Haiyang,Wang, Qiang .Drag force and heat transfer characteristics of deformable alumina droplets in compressible flows[J].Physics of Fluids,2024,36 (3),AIP Publishing
摘要：This paper investigates the force and heat transfer characteristics of deformable alumina droplets in compressible flow. The numerical scheme couples the Navier-Stokes equations with the volume-of-fluid method, fuzzy theory, and a proportional-derivative controller. The effects of the Reynolds number, Weber number, and relative Mach number on the droplet deformation and the drag and heat transfer characteristics are studied. The results show that the fuzzy theory coupled with the proportional-derivative controller allow the droplet to reach the quasi-steady state more efficiently and robustly. The drag coefficient and Nusselt number of the droplet increase with the degree of deformation and the relative Mach number between the flow field and the droplet. The relative Mach number and the Weber number are weakly coupled with the drag coefficient and the Nusselt number. Finally, the inner two-phase flow fields of a solid rocket motor are calculated. The mechanisms whereby particle deformation influence the inner flow field of the solid rocket motor are analyzed.
[133] Thet Zin,Jetsadaporn Priyadumkol,Tinnapob Phengpom ,等.A mechanistic force balance model for vapor bubble departure in subcooled and saturated pool boiling: Thermal-fluid dynamics integration for accurate heat transfer prediction[J].Results in Engineering,2025,28 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The accurate prediction of bubble departure diameter (BDD) in pool boiling has long been a challenge in thermal engineering due to the complex interactions of microscale phenomena that govern phase change and interfacial dynamics. In this study, an enhanced force balance model (FBM) was developed to predict BDD, incorporating key microscale mechanisms, such as microlayer evaporation, superheated liquid diffusion, and condensation effects. These additions significantly improved predictive accuracy under both subcooled (0–10 K) and saturated boiling conditions. Evaluation of the baseline FBM showed strong agreement with experimental data at high subcooling, though it exhibited reduced accuracy at low subcooling. The proposed enhancements could lead to a substantial improvement across all subcooling levels, with over 85 % of model predictions falling within ±25 % of experimental results. The enhanced FBM was implemented in the OpenFOAM framework, where it was validated through numerical simulations against experimental data from a vertically heated tube. The model demonstrated excellent agreement across a range of heat flux levels (22.13, 69.62, and 100.2 kW/m²), accurately capturing key parameters such as wall superheat, void fraction, and liquid temperature distributions. High-resolution near-wall analysis, facilitated by OpenFOAM, provided valuable insights into local heat transfer characteristics and the dynamics of phase interfaces. This study advances the transition from empirical boiling correlations to more physics-based simulation models, presenting a robust framework for optimizing the design of thermal systems.
[134] Jessica Ka Yi Chiu,Charlie Chunlin Li,Ole Jakob Mengshoel ,等.Slope rockbolting using key block theory:Force transfer and artificial intelligence-assisted multi-objective optimisation[J].Journal of Rock Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering,2026,18 (1):73-91,Chinese Academy of Sciences
摘要：This paper presents a novel artificial intelligence(AI)-assisted two-stage method for optimising rock slope stability by integrating advanced 3D modelling with rock support design,aiming at minimising risks,material usage,and *** the first stage,an extended key block analysis identifies key blocks and key block groups,accounting for progressive failure and force *** second stage uses AI algorithms to optimise rockbolting design,balancing stability,cost,and material *** most efficient algorithms include the multi-objective tree-structured Parzen estimator(MOTPE)and non-dominated sorting genetic algorithms(NSGA-II and NSGA-III).Applied to the Larvik rock slope,the optimised solution uses 18 pre-tensioned cablebolts,providing 13.2 MN of active force and achieving a factor of safety of 1.31 while reducing the average anchorage length by approximately 16%compared to traditional *** AI-assisted approach also reduces computation time by over 90%compared to Quasi-Monte Carlo(QMC)methods,demonstrating its efficiency for small-scale civil engineering projects and large-scale mining *** developed tool is practical,compatible with Building Information Modelling(BIM),and ready for engineering implementation,supporting sustainable and cost-effective rock slope *** the method is largely automated,professional judgement remains crucial for verifying ground conditions and selecting the final *** work will focus on integrating data uncertainties,addressing complex block deformation mechanisms,refining optimisation objectives,and improving the performance of multi-objective optimisation for slope rockboling applications to further enhance the method's versatility.
[135] Pantokratoras, Asterios .Numerical study of Cattaneo-Christov heat transfer in MHD Carreau-Yasuda hybrid nanofluid subjected to Buoyancy force, Shafia Rana, Hadi Ali Madkhali, Muhammad Nawaz, Sayer Obaid Alharbi[J].ZAMM - Journal of Applied Mathematics and Mechanics / Zeitschrift für Angewandte Mathematik und Mechanik,2025,105 (8),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：Many serious errors exist in the above paper.
[136] Liu, Ruoxuan,He, Xiaochun,Liu, Tianfen ,等.Organic Reactions Enabled by Mechanical Force-Induced Single Electron Transfer[J].Chemistry - A European Journal,2024,30 (47),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：Mechanochemical reactions, achieved through milling, grinding, or other mechanical actions, have emerged as a solvent-free alternative to traditional solution-based chemistry. Mechanochemistry not only provides the opportunity to eliminate bulk solvent use, reducing waste generation, but also unveils a new reaction strategy which enables the realization of reactions previously inaccessible in solution. While the majority of organic reactions facilitated by mechanical force traditionally follow two-electron transfer pathways similar to their solution-based counterparts, the field of mechanochemically induced single-electron transfer (SET) reactions has witnessed rapid development. This review outlines examples of mechanochemical reactions facilitated by the SET process, focusing on the reagents that initiate SET, thereby positioning mechanochemistry as a burgeoning field within the realm of single-electron chemistry. Mechanochemistry emerges as a sustainable, solvent-free alternative to traditional synthesis, minimizing hazardous solvents and waste. This innovative field uncovers reaction pathways once considered impossible with solution-based techniques. This review seeks to encapsulate the advancements in mechanochemically triggered single electron transfer (SET) reactions involving inorganic substances, metals, polymers, and other materials over recent years. image
[137] Wu, Yongping,Tang, Yepeng,Xie, Panshi ,等.Internal stress transfer characteristics of coal-rock medium under concentrated force based on particle flow method[J].Scientific Reports,2024,14 (1):1-18,NATURE PORTFOLIO
摘要：To solve the problem that the macroscopic deformation and failure of coal-rock medium under external loads are easy to be observed while the internal stress transfer mode and path are unclear. Based on the discrete element idea, the numerical models for pure coal or rock samples and coal-rock combination samples with different lithologies and combination methods under concentrated force are established by PFC2D software. Then the influence of coal or rock strength and combination methods on the internal stress transfer law and distribution evolution characteristics of coal-rock medium are discussed from the perspectives of macroscopic stress and mesoscopic force chain, respectively. The results showed that under concentrated load, the macroscopic stress transfer paths within pure coal or rock samples and coal-rock combination samples are primarily in the form of 'point source radiation'. However, when transferring between coal-rock interfaces, there is a certain interface effect. For pure coal or rock samples, differences in lithology does not change the transfer rules and macro distribution patterns of internal stress, but it can cause changes in internal unit transfer stress value and local area transfer direction. For coal-rock combination samples, the greater the difference in lithology between the two sides of the interface, the more likely the interface effect will occur. In addition, the internal stress transfer is also influenced by the relative stratigraphic relationships of coal and rock. When the stress is transferred from a higher-strength rock to a lower-strength coal mass, the interface effect will be more significant. However, regardless of the combination pattern, the locations where significant stress surges occur are always within the higher strength rock mass near the interface. The findings are helpful to understand the mechanical properties and failure mechanism of mining coal and rock mass, and provide a theoretical basis for the study of the m
[138] Jian-Jun Gou,Shu-Zhen Jia,Hai-Tao Tian ,等.An integrated optimization method of multi-hierarchy variables for rudder structures with radial force transfer paths[J].Aerospace Science and Technology,2024,148 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The optimization of structures with beam-like force transfer paths for flight vehicles is closely dependent on the hierarchy decomposition and interaction effects of variables. In this work, the variable of a rudder structure with radial beams is decomposed into conventional hierarchies of topology and size and a new unconventional hierarchy of angle, which is a representational variable with implicit expression for radial beam direction. A unified code form is proposed for discrete variable, i.e., topology and continuous variables, i.e., angle and size, and then an integrated optimization method of multi-hierarchy variables is developed based on the genetic algorithm and the interaction effects between different hierarchies are fully considered. A two-hierarchy optimization model of topology and size and a three-hierarchy optimization model of topology, size and angle are then constructed, respectively. The statics problem with objective of minimum structural mass and constraints of stress and displacement, and the static aeroelastic problem with objective of minimum influence quantity and constraints of structural mass, stress and displacement are solved. The results show that the three-hierarchy optimization model is more efficient than the two-hierarchy one with structural mass reduction of 18.9 % and aeroelastic influence quantity reduction of 4.3 %. © 2024 Elsevier Masson SAS
[139] Nazeer, Mubbashar,Hussain, Farooq .The potential impact of magnetic force on the heat transfer analysis in the pressure-driven flow of the Carreau fluid: fluid-particle suspension flow of a non-Newtonian fluid[J].Pramana,2025,99 (4):1-14,INDIAN ACAD SCIENCES
摘要：The applications of thermal transport through highly viscous fluids are observed in chemical and industrial engineering. With the inspiration of existing non-Newtonian fluids in chemical industries, the objective of the present study is to regulate the fluid temperature and improve the convective heat transfer in Carreau fluid by choosing a suitable power-law index and magnetic field. In this paper, two separate models of equations are presented based on the fluid phase and particle phase by using the Carreau fluid tensor. The dimensional equations are transformed into dimensionless form by applying the right transformation and the closed-form solution is generated through Mathematica 14.2. The computational results showed that the power-law index diminished the velocity and temperature fields. Moreover, the velocity and temperature of the pseudoplastic fluid are greater than those of the dilatant fluid. Further, the two-phase fluid model gives a higher heat transfer rate than the single-phase fluid model. It is observed that the dilatant fluid is the best option for the suspension of two-phase flow. The current computational results are expected to extend our understanding of two-phase flows of Carreau fluid and help to design innovative microfluidic devices with boosted performance for various industrial applications. Furthermore, this research will also be helpful for beginners to understand the basic idea of multiphase flow in non-Newtonian fluids.
[140] Yuryev, Valentin,Hughes, Josie .Tendon Force Modeling for Sim2Real Transfer of Reinforcement Learning Policies for Tendon-Driven Robots[J].arXiv,2026,arXiv
摘要：Robots which make use of soft or compliant interactions often leverage tendon-driven actuation which enables actuators to be placed more flexibly, and compliance to be maintained. However, controlling complex tendon systems is challenging. Simulation paired with reinforcement learning (RL) could be enable more complex behaviors to be generated. Such methods rely on torque and force-based simulation roll-outs which are limited by the sim-to-real gap, stemming from the actuator and system dynamics, resulting in poor transfer of RL policies onto real robots. To address this, we propose a method to model the tendon forces produced by typical servo motors, focusing specifically on the transfer of RL policies for a tendon driven finger. Our approach extends existing data-driven techniques by leveraging contextual history and a novel data collection test-bench. This test-bench allows us to capture tendon forces undergo contact-rich interactions typical of real-world manipulation. We then utilize our force estimation model in a GPU-accelerated tendon force-driven rigid body simulation to train RL-based controllers. Our transformer-based model is capable of predicting tendon forces within 3% of the maximum motor force and is robot-agnostic. By integrating our learned model into simulation, we reduce the sim-to-real gap for test trajectories by 41%. RL-based controller trained with our model achieves a 50% improvement in fingertip pose tracking tasks on real tendon-driven robotic fingers. This approach is generalizable to different actuators and robot systems, and can enable RL policies to be used widely across tendon systems, advancing capabilities of dexterous manipulators and soft robots. Copyright © 2026, The Authors. All rights reserved.
[141] Tian, Xiaochun,Ren, Chongyuan,Xu, Yizi ,等.Perspectives on Atomic Force Microscopy for Investigating Microbial Extracellular Electron Transfer[J].Fuel Cells,2026,26 (3),John Wiley and Sons Ltd
摘要：Extracellular electron transfer (EET) in electroactive microorganisms plays a critical role in the bioenergy conversion processes of bioelectrochemical systems. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) has emerged as a powerful tool for probing microbial ultrastructure and electrical properties, particularly for resolving conductive features such as bacterial nanowires at the nanoscale. However, real-time in situ characterization of dynamic EET processes under physiologically relevant aqueous conditions remains technically challenging. This perspective summarizes recent advances in multimodal AFM techniques, with particular emphasis on electrical and electrochemical AFM approaches for investigating EET mechanisms at the single-cell level. We further discuss the opportunities and limitations of aqueous AFM measurements and integrated AFM platforms that enable enhanced electron transfer detection with micro- to nanoscale spatial resolution and molecular sensitivity. These developments provide new opportunities for the direct visualization and quantitative analysis of EET processes in living microbial systems. Continued progress in AFM-based methodologies will advance the mechanistic understanding of microbial electroactivity and support the development of high-efficiency bioelectrochemical systems, including microbial fuel cells. © 2026 Wiley-VCH GmbH.
[142] Lach, Luca,Haschke, Robert,Tateo, Davide ,等.Zero-Shot Transfer of a Tactile-based Continuous Force Control Policy from Simulation to Robot[M].2024 IEEE/RSJ INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON INTELLIGENT ROBOTS AND SYSTEMS, IROS 2024,2024,IEEE
摘要：The advent of tactile sensors in robotics has sparked many ideas on how robots can leverage direct contact measurements of their environment interactions to improve manipulation tasks. An important line of research in this regard is grasp force control, which aims to manipulate objects safely by limiting the amount of force exerted on the object. While prior works have either hand-modeled their force controllers, employed model-based approaches, or not shown sim-to-real transfer, we propose a model-free deep reinforcement learning approach trained in simulation and then transferred to the robot without further fine-tuning. We, therefore, present a simulation environment that produces realistic normal forces, which we use to train continuous force control policies. A detailed evaluation shows that the learned policy performs similarly or better than a hand-crafted baseline. Ablation studies prove that the proposed inductive bias and domain randomization facilitate sim-to-real transfer. Code, models, and supplementary videos are available on https://***/view/rl-force-ctrl
[143] Liang, Cunman,Wang, Fujun,Li, Pan ,等.Adhesion Force Modeling of Octopus-like Stamp for Micro Transfer Printing[M],2024,Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc.
摘要：With the rapid advancement in flexible electronics, the micro transfer printing technology is emerging as a highly promising approach for integrating micro/nano-scale heterogeneous materials in this field. A crucial aspect of micro transfer printing research revolves around studying the stamp's controllable adhesion force, which serves as the execution device for the printing process, so it is necessary to establish an accurate adhesion force model of the stamp. In this study, we have developed a groundbreaking octopus-inspired stamp featuring both cavity and micro-channels. The adhesive force exhibited by the developed stamp arises from the combined effects of van der Waals forces at the stamp's end face and an additional adhesion force resulting from the pressure differential between the cavity and the surrounding atmosphere. The additional adhesion force of the stamp is modeled based on the fundamental principles of fluid dynamics, specifically the Navier-Stokes equation, and the first law of thermodynamics. The numerical computation of adhesion force is carried out by numerical iterative algorithm, and the effects of stretching distance and velocity on the additional adhesion force of the stamp are investigated. The numerical computation results show that the additional adhesion force of the stamp can be controlled by both the stretching distance and stretching velocity. This finding opens up new avenues for optimizing the design of octopus-like stamps used in micro transfer printing. © 2024 IEEE.
[144] Li, Qiang,Wu, Qingcong,Zou, Haitao ,等.Human-in-the-Loop Control of a Hip Assistive Exoskeleton Based on Cross-Limb Virtual Force Transfer[J].IEEE Sensors Journal,2024,24 (24):42428-42439,IEEE-INST ELECTRICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC
摘要：In industries where various unavoidable heavy lifting tasks are prevalent, workers are at high risk of developing musculoskeletal disorders. It is of great research value to relieve the physical stress of workers at work, reduce the risk of musculoskeletal diseases, and improve the work efficiency of workers. This article introduces a hip joint assistive exoskeleton robot that can provide a maximum assist torque of up to 80 Nm. We propose a human-in-loop control scheme for cross-limb virtual force transfer, with the human as the control leader. The exoskeleton is controlled based on surface electromyography (EMG) signals. The signal is filtered, normalized, and fed into a neural network model to estimate human joint torque. The estimated virtual force is used as the inner loop force control trajectory to assist the user. The assist torque can be adaptively adjusted according to the size of the grabbed heavy object. This solution collects the signals from the upper limbs, controls the exoskeleton to assist the lower limbs, and adjusts the assistance level in real time according to the preferences of user. The experimental results demonstrate that when using exoskeleton assistance, the muscle activity of the thighs of the subjects can be reduced by up to 43.82%.
[145] Chen, Jianneng,Yao, Kun,Yu, Chennan ,等.Synthesis of a single-degree-of-freedom noncircular pulley-five-bar finger rehabilitation mechanism considering force transfer performance[J].Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers,Part C: Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science,2025,239 (1):55-70,SAGE PUBLICATIONS LTD
摘要：Currently, most of the finger rehabilitation mechanisms achieve the desired motion by scale synthesis or using multi-degree-of-freedom (DOF) mechanisms, which cannot simultaneously achieve the requirements of posture and trajectory for finger rehabilitation. Aiming to solve this problem, this study proposes a single-DOF noncircular pulley-five-bar finger rehabilitation mechanism, obtains the pose requirements of finger movement and extracts four important poses. The solution domain of the five-bar mechanism with four poses was solved using the solution-region synthesis method, and the noncircular pulley was used to constrain two rods, making it a single-DOF mechanism. According to the requirements of the finger rehabilitation mechanism and considering the force transmission characteristics of the mechanism, the mechanism parameter optimization model is established, and the optimal parameters are optimized. The calculation model of noncircular pulley transmission is established, and the profile of noncircular pulley is solved according to the obtained rod rotation angle relationship. A finger rehabilitation device was developed, and an experimental study was performed. It was found that the device passed four poses, and the actual trajectory was consistent with the target trajectory. It is confirmed that the single-DOF noncircular pulley-five-bar finger rehabilitation mechanism proposed is effective, and solution method are correct.
[146] Akbar, Imam,Rawani, Dewi,Rusmaryadi, Heriyanto ,等.Analysis of the Effect of Tortuosity Porous Heatsink on Force Convection Heat Transfer[J].Journal of Advanced Research in Numerical Heat Transfer,2024,16 (1):57-69,Penerbit Akademia Baru
摘要：The improvement of performance in modern electronic devices has driven rapid advancements in the field of thermal management. Excessive heating of electronic components can lead to damage and decreased device performance. This research aimed to analyze the effect of tortuosity porous heatsink on force convection heat transfer. Computational fluid dynamics methodology was used to model airflow and the distribution of temperature, velocity, convective heat transfer coefficient, and turbulence kinetic energy (TKE) in heatsinks with varying tortuosity levels. Results show that tortuosity has a positive linear correlation with heatsink surface area and pressure drop. However, it has a negative linear correlation with surface heat transfer coefficient (SHTC). When the tortuosity increases, the surface area increases from 9298.48 mm<sup>2</sup> to 12711.93 mm<sup>2</sup>, and the pressure drop increases from 19.587 Pa to 24.296 Pa. By contrast, the surface heat transfer coefficient decreased significantly from 41.1214 W m<sup>-2</sup> K<sup>-1</sup> to 30.8454 W m<sup>-2</sup> K<sup>-1</sup>. This study also shows that heatsinks with low tortuosity have a more uniform distribution of temperature, velocity, and TKE, resulting in higher cooling efficiency. Thus, we conclude that tortuosity is an important factor in heatsink design and optimization, and a suitable level of tortuosity should be achieved. © 2024, Penerbit Akademia Baru. All rights reserved.
[147] Sergey V. Kartashov,Anton P. Fedonin,Robert R. Fayzullin .Exploring Interatomic Electron Transfer and Metal–Ligand Binding Mechanism in Trimethylenemethane Iron Tricarbonyl: Insights from Potentials per Electron and Corresponding Force Density Fields[J].Inorganic Chemistry,2024,63 (46):21994-22008,American Chemical Society
摘要：This study employs an analysis of the per-electron potentials and the superposition of the electrostatic and kinetic force fields,Fes(r) andFk(r), and the gradients of the potential energy and one-electron densities to investigate the binding mechanism in trimethylenemethane iron tricarbonyl complex (TMM)Fe(CO)3. Our approach permits the delineation of the “ligand-binding” force field generated by the metal nucleus but partially operating within the ligand atoms. A mechanical rationale for metal–ligand interactions is thus presented: In the corresponding area, the attractive forceFes(r) provides the backdrop against which the homotropic static forceℱFF(r) and the heterotropic kinetic forceFk(r) exert attractive and repulsive influences, respectively, toward the metal nucleus on a portion of the electrons belonging to the ligand atoms. This area thus represents electron sharing, which emerges as a quantum chemical response against the metal-to-ligand electron transfer. It has been demonstrated that the response is facilitated by the decreased potential energy density in the vicinity of the interatomic surface. Our findings indicate that the polar coordination bonds in (TMM)Fe(CO)3exhibit notable quantum chemical responses. However, the previously described nonbonded contact also features an unexpectedly pronounced response, despite the absence of a bond path. It can be proposed that the unforeseen response is a consequence of the formation of the 18-electron, closed valence shell, rather than an indication of the establishment of an organometallic chemical bond.
[148] Ramirez-Wierzbicki, Ivana,Merlinsky, Luciano Sanchez,Pieslinger, German E. ,等.Tuning Electron-Transfer Driving Force in Photosynthetic Special Pair Models[J].Chemistry - A European Journal,2025,31 (2),WILEY-V C H VERLAG GMBH
摘要：Visible-light excitation of a family of bimetallic ruthenium polypyridines with the formula [RuII(tpy)(bpy)(-CN)RuII(py)4L]n+ (RuRuLn+), where L=Cl-, NCS-, DMAP and ACN, was used to prepare photoinduced mixed-valence (PI-MV) MLCT states as models of the photosynthetic reaction center. Ultrafast transient absorption spectroscopy allowed to monitor photoinduced IVCT bands between 6000 and 11000 cm-1. Mulliken spin densities resulting from DFT and (TD)DFT computations revealed the modulation of the charge density distribution depending on the ligand substitution pattern. Results are consistent with PI-MV systems ranging from non-degenerate Class II to degenerate Class III or II/III, with electronic couplings between 1000 and 3500 cm-1. These findings guide the control electron localization-delocalization in charge-transfer/charge-separated excited states, like those involved in the photosynthetic reaction center.
[149] Weihan Shen,Andreas Schuhmacher,Wookeun Song ,等.Bayesian method for force identification within transfer path analysis[J].Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing,2025,235 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：In Transfer Path Analysis (TPA), accurate estimation results always rely on an appropriate treatment of the matrix inversion. While mainstream approaches, such as overdetermining the system and utilizing regularization techniques, are commonly applied, each method has its own limitations. Overdetermining the system requires additional indicators, further complicating the measurement procedure, and is impractical in scenarios with limited sensor mounting space. Regularization, on the other hand, is frequently criticized for instability. Its accuracy often depends on the specific problem, making it difficult to achieve satisfactory results without tailored approaches. This paper introduces a Bayesian framework to enhance the performance of classical TPA, offering a data-driven approach to handle the mentioned challenges. The feasibility of the Bayesian model is evaluated through both experimental setups that mimic an excitation source mounted on a suspension with resilient connections and corresponding numerical simulations. Moreover, to explore the possibility of applying TPA to smaller structures, we also assess the Bayesian TPA when relaxing the typically required overdetermined constraints. The results show that the Bayesian model can provide more insight into the uncertainty and model-appropriateness within the TPA estimation process and give more accurate and robust outputs in underdetermined system scenarios.
[150] Nazeer, Mubbashar,Saleem, Salman,Nazir, M. Waqas .Controlling the convective heat transfer of shear thinning and shear thickening fluids in parallel plates with magnetic force[J].Zeitschrift für Naturforschung A,2025,80 (6):469-483,WALTER DE GRUYTER GMBH
摘要：The heat transfer analysis from the mixture flow of Carreau fluid in infinite horizontal parallel plates under the impact of the magnetic field is proposed in this theoretical analysis. The flow and heat transfer analysis through parallel plates offers various applications in nuclear reactors, microfluidic devices, lubrication systems, chemical, industrial and biological systems, etc. With motivation of current non-Newtonian fluids (Carrreau fluid) used in industries and chemical engineering, the goal of this research is to develop a mathematical model based on fluid phase and particulate phase to control the temperature of fluid and increase the convective heat transfer in considered non-Newtonian fluids under the suitable range of the physical parameters including magnetic field parameter, Darcy number, Power-law index, slip boundary conditions, volume fraction density and Weissenberg number. The nonlinear mathematical model is established with the contribution of the stress tensor and solved through the perturbation series technique. The computational results are discussed through plots and tables. From the calculated data it is perceived that volume fraction density improved the velocity and temperature distributions. It is also noted that the contribution of the magnetic field declines the flow and thermal field. The slip parameters and Darcy number upsurge the velocity and temperature fields. The comparative analysis between mixture phase flow and simple phase flow is also discussed and observed that the mixture phase flow gives more heat transfer in Carreau fluid as compared to simple phase fluid. The present research will help to understand the basic research of the mixture-phase flow of highly viscous fluid through the porous medium when the uniform magnetic field is applied transversely. Further, applications of the present study are found in medical treatment with wound healing and hyperthermia, heat exchangers, nuclear reactors, etc. This research can al
[151] Cox, James R.,Butlin, Mark,Akeila, Ehad ,等.Impact of Finger Contact Force on Aortic Waveform Parameters Derived from Finger Photoplethysmography Using a Transfer Function[M].2024 IEEE SENSORS,2024,IEEE
摘要：Objective. Photoplethysmography (PPG) technology is the basis of most wearable cardiovascular health monitoring devices. PPG-based monitoring typically uses heart rate (HR) analysis. Cardiovascular pulse wave analysis (PWA) could enhance PPG-based monitoring. Applied finger pressure may alter the waveform, limiting potential for PPG-based PWA. This study investigates that potential limitation. Design and Method. Radial tonometry and fingertip infrared PPG measurements were performed at 10 different applied finger pressure levels in participants (n=18, 41 +/- 16 years, 8 female) under resting conditions. Aortic pressure waveforms were derived by applying a generalized transfer function (GTF) (radial and PPG measurements) and a selective transfer function (STF) (PPG measurements). Differences (mean +/- standard deviation) of PPG derived aortic waveform parameters from radial tonometry derived waveform parameters were calculated and statistically compared. Results. When using the STF applied to the PPG at all applied forces, central systolic blood pressure and central augmentation index corrected to a heart rate of 75 beats per minute were overestimated. The GTF applied to the PPG underestimated the same parameters. PPG derived aortic subendocardial viability ratio and ejection duration displayed minimal differences from radial derived parameters. Reduced variability tended to occur at higher contact forces. Conclusions. In the context of cardiovascular health monitoring, finger contact force on a PPG sensor should be taken into consideration as some aortic waveform features were impacted by the applied force.
[152] Wan, Jiaxing,Wang, Donghua,Cui, Kai .Study on the Force Transfer Process of Bolt-Slurry Interface of Full-Length Bonding Anchor System at Earthen Sites[J].Coatings,2024,14 (9),MDPI
摘要：The debonding and sliding of the bolt-slurry interface is the main failure form of the full-length bonding anchor system (FLBAS) of earthen sites, so it is urgent to carry out a quantitative study of the force transfer process of the anchorage interface. Based on field test results and existing research results, it was found that the bilinear bond-slip model is in line with the description of the constitutive relationship of the bolt-slurry interface. The whole process of debonding slip is discussed accordingly;the expressions for the slip, the axial strain of the bolt, and the load displacement at the bolt-slurry interface corresponding to the different loading stages are deduced;and the calculations of the ultimate load-carrying capacity and the effective anchorage length are given at the same time. On this basis, the bond-slip model parameters were calibrated by identifying the characteristic points of the bond-slip curve;a multi-parameter cross-comparison validation of the reasonableness of the theoretical analytical model was carried out on the basis of in situ pull-out tests;and the law of the influence of anchor bond length and axial stiffness on the anchorage performance was analyzed. The analytical model proposed in this study is widely applicable to the analysis of force transfer processes at the bolt-slurry interface in the presence of complete debonding phenomena and provides a useful reference for optimizing the design of anchors while minimizing interventions.
[153] Yanyan Shang,Huiqing Fan,Hengliang Shi ,等.Enhancing the charge transfer driving force in ZnO/g-C₃N₄ S-scheme heterojunction via piezoelectric field for photocatalytic H₂ evolution[J].Applied Catalysis A: General,2026,714 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：A ZnO/g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub> S-scheme heterojunction was successfully fabricated via a facile calcination method. Under the synergistic effect of visible light and ultrasonic oscillation, the piezoelectric polarization of ZnO offered an extra driving force for charge separation. The induced piezoelectric field (PEF) accelerated the charge transfer and improved the visible-light response and photocatalytic H<sub>2</sub> production efficiency. Under such coupled excitation, the extra driving force enlarged the energy band bending and strengthened the inherent internal electric field (IEF) of the heterojunction. Benefiting from the cooperation between the PEF and IEF, the heterojunction exhibited an excellent H<sub>2</sub> evolution rate (HER) of 6739.25 μmolg<sup>−1</sup>h<sup>−1</sup> over 4 h under simultaneous visible-light irradiation and ultrasonic treatment, which was 15.51 times higher than that of pure g-C<sub>3</sub>N<sub>4</sub>. This work provides a new and universal strategy: promoting carrier migration in photocatalysts by piezoelectric polarization to enhance their energy conversion efficiency.
[154] Li, Xin,Ma, Guanjun,Wang, Donghao .Research on Bowden Cable-Fabric Force Transfer System Based on Force/Displacement Compensation and Impedance Control[J].Applied Sciences,2023,13 (21),MDPI
摘要：Bowden cable-fabric is a key force transfer device for flexible exoskeletons, and its precise control of force/displacement is a significant factor in the human-machine interaction of flexible exoskeletons. In this paper, a force/displacement control method based on friction compensation and impedance control was proposed based on a flexible Bowden cable-fabric force transfer testbed system. First, a set of in vitro experimental platforms simulating Bowden cable-fabric force transfer was built according to a typical flexible exoskeleton force transfer system, and following the walking gait of lower limbs, the expected force and knee joint motion were set. Secondly, the Bowden cable-fabric force transfer friction model was constructed as the basis of the system's force transfer compensation. In addition, the stiffness model of Bowden cable-fabric and the lower leg movement model were established and combined with impedance control to realize the precise control of system displacement. Finally, the damping and stiffness parameters suitable for the system were obtained through the impedance control simulation. In terms of the experiment, an in vitro Bowden cable-fabric force transfer experimental platform was built, and the expected force with the input peak value of 40 N, 50 N, and 60 N was set. Through the friction and position compensation model of Bowden cable-fabric force transfer and impedance control, the relative root-mean-square errors of the output force and expected force were obtained as 2.53%, 2.16%, and 2.07%, respectively. Therefore, the effectiveness of the proposed method is verified, which provides a foundation for the engineering application of flexible exoskeletons.
[155] Shaffer, Kathryn E.,Mccumiskey, Edward J.,Krick, Brandon A. ,等.Atomic Force Microscopy of Transfer Film Development[J].Tribology Letters,2024,72 (3):1-9,SPRINGER/PLENUM PUBLISHERS
摘要：Atomic force microscopy (AFM) provides the opportunity to perform fundamental and mechanistic observations of complex, dynamic, and transient systems and ultimately link material microstructure and its evolution during tribological interactions. This investigation focuses on the evolution of a dynamic fluoropolymer tribofilm formed during sliding of polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) mixed with 5 wt% alpha-phase alumina particles against 304L stainless steel. Sliding was periodically interrupted for AFM topography scans. The average film roughness, the average friction coefficient, and polymer wear rate based on sample height recession were recorded as a function of increasing sliding cycles. Topographical maps suggested tribofilm nucleates in grooves of the steel countersample, spreads, and develops into a uniform film through sliding. Prominent nanoscale features were visible around 10,000 sliding cycles and thereafter. Scanning electron microscopy and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy showed good correlations between these features and aluminum-rich domains, suggesting the presence of alumina particles on the surface.
[156] Jiaqi Ou,Shuangqiang Fang,Haoliang Cheng ,等.Awakening dumb Mn 2+ mechanoluminescence site to achieve force, temperature and time-domain induced color tuning via trap-assisted energy transfer[J].Chemical Engineering Journal,2024,493 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Mn<sup>2+</sup> is a vital mechanoluminescent (ML) center with the properties of wide and color tunable spectrum. However, it is arduously to generate ML in asymmetric polyhedra, except in tetrahedral or octahedral coordination, which immensely impede the development and application of new-type Mn<sup>2+</sup> doped ML materials. In this paper, a trap-assisted energy transfer model is proposed, successfully awakening dumb Mn<sup>2+</sup> ML within the asymmetric [SrO<sub>9</sub>] polyhedron in Sr<sub>5</sub>(PO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>3</sub>Cl structure. Via this model, Sr<sub>5</sub>(PO<sub>4</sub>)<sub>3</sub>Cl:Eu<sup>2+</sup>,Mn<sup>2+</sup> ML powder exhibits remarkable ML discoloration under variational force and temperature stimulation. Significantly, millisecond level of time domain change induced ML discoloration is observed for the first time, enabling force, temperature and time-domain triple-mode stress sensing. Finally, basing on the ML intensity ratio method (MLIR), 1.02 %·K<sup>−1</sup> of relative sensitivity for self-powered temperature sensing and a distinguishable stress distribution imaging are presented. This work not only broadens the substitution site of Mn<sup>2+</sup> ML, but also offers a new insight for the development of multi-mode ML sensing technology. © 2024 Elsevier B.V.
[157] Sunghyuk Choi,Jinwook Jung,Jung-Ik Ha .Reactive Power Analysis of EV Wireless Power Transfer Systems Using Magnetomotive Force and Magnetic Circuit[M],2026,Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
摘要：This paper presents a reactive power analysis for an EV wireless power transfer (WPT) system based on magnetomotive force (MMF) and magnetic circuit analysis, in which the MMF magnitude and phase are deliberately designed to improve power transfer efficiency. The proposed analysis clarifies the relations among the MMF magnitude, MMF phase, and reactive power requirement of the pad. Unlike the conventional designs that prefix the compensation network topology and rely solely on circuit analysis, the proposed approach incorporates magnetic circuit-based insight into the system design. Experimental results show that, for the same WPT pad geometries, the highest efficiency was observed near the region of minimum pad reactive power. The methodology is validated across various air gap conditions, confirming its applicability to practical EV WPT systems and providing a basis for comprehensive system design guidelines.
[158] Yingdong Wang,Kun Jiang,Haozhe Su ,等.Drag force and heat transfer coefficient for Stefan flow-affected non-spherical particles in supercritical water[J].Powder Technology,2024,448 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The fluid and non-spherical particle interaction exists widely in multiphase systems and is more complex due to the shape factor and the Stefan flow that emits from the particle surface will further affect the mass, momentum, and energy transfer between the particle and the fluid. Works about the drag coefficient and Nusselt number relations for Stefan flow-affected non-spherical particles are rare. Motivated by this fact, a particle-resolved direct numerical simulation study of Stefan flow-affected non-spherical particles in supercritical water is carried out to investigate the flow and heat transfer process. The sphere, ellipsoid, cylinder, cube, and cuboid particles are considered in steady-state regimes corresponding to Reynolds numbers from 10 up to 200. This work analyzes the pressure and friction drag coefficients of the particles and illustrates the flow, velocity, and temperature distribution around the particles. The drag coefficient and Nusselt number show significant differences between different shape particles, and Stefan flow further reduces the drag force and Nusselt number. The Reynolds number, particle shape, and Stefan flow both influence particle-fluid interaction: introducing two particle shape descriptors, the drag coefficient depends primarily on the average sphericity (Φ<sub>Av</sub>), while the crosswise sphericity (Φ<sub>⊥</sub>) influences the Nusselt number. The new fitting formulas are developed for the drag coefficient and the Nusselt number of the Stefan flow-affected non-spherical particles. © 2024
[159] Hongliang Hua,Zhenqiang Liao,Yuhang Liu ,等.Compliant human–robot object transfer based on modular 3-axis force sensor for collaborative manufacturing[J].ISA Transactions,2023,141 :482-495,Elsevier Science
摘要：The primary motivation of this paper is to present a compliant and cost-effective solution for object transfer between human and robot. The application prospect of this study is robot-human collaboration in manufacturing. To achieve above goals, a novel modular 3-axis force sensor is proposed for the grasping system to achieve interactive force sensing. Compliant object transfer control strategy, which is composed of incremental force control mode and gravity balance control mode, is proposed for object transfer between human and robot. A prototype of underactuated grasping system which is mounted on the proposed modular 3-axis force sensor is fabricated to investigate the effectiveness of the proposed interactive control strategy. Experimental results reveal that the incremental force control mode is suitable for the lighter objects with a higher interactive sensitivity. For transferring heavier objects, the gravity balance control mode is more suitable. In gravity balance control mode, the human hand could achieve a quasi-static equilibrium with the object, and achieve a compliant transfer operation. Due to the above characteristic, the proposed control strategy has the potentials to enhance the object transfer compliance and safety in the human-robot object transfer process.
[160] Nakatani, Maki,Fukamachi, Satoru,Solis-Fernandez, Pablo ,等.Ready-to-transfer two-dimensional materials using tunable adhesive force tapes[J].Nature Electronics,2024,7 (2):119-130,NATURE PORTFOLIO
摘要：Graphene and other two-dimensional (2D) materials can be used to create electronic and optoelectronic devices. However, their development has been limited by the lack of effective large-area transfer processes. Here we report a transfer method that uses functional tapes with adhesive forces controlled by ultraviolet light. The adhesion of the tape is optimized for the transfer of monolayer graphene, providing a yield of over 99%. Once detached from the growth substrate, the graphene/tape stack enables easy transfer of graphene to the desired target substrate. The method can be used to transfer other 2D materials, including bilayer graphene, transition metal dichalcogenides, hexagonal boron nitride and stacked heterostructures. The solvent-free nature of the final release step facilitates transfer to various target substrates including flexible polymers, paper and three-dimensional surfaces. The tape/2D material stacks can also be cut into desired sizes and shapes, allowing site-selective device fabrication with reduced loss of 2D materials. Large-area two-dimensional materials can be transferred at low temperatures and without solvents using conformable tapes whose adhesive force varies with ultraviolet illumination, allowing transfer to various planar and non-planar substrates.
[161] Ohashi, Naoaki,Kishiki, Shoichi,Hirano, Ichiro ,等.FUNDAMENTAL EVALUATION OF LATERAL FORCE TRANSFER MECHANISMS IN SUSPENDED CEILINGS WITH HORIZONTAL AND SLOPING GEOMETRIES[J].Journal of Structural and Construction Engineering (Transactions of AIJ),2024,89 (815):98-108,Architectural Institute of Japan
摘要：In this paper, static loading tests using gravity were conducted to investigate the lateral force transfer mechanisms of a complex ceiling configuration with horizontal and sloped. The test results showed that it was necessary to use different structural models considering the axial stiffness of the suspension members and the bending stiffness of the ceiling plate. Based on numerical analysis, an appropriate structural model was proposed for each ceiling type by using the ratio of the bending stiffness of the ceiling plate to the sum of the vertical axial stiffness of the suspension. © 2024 Architectural Institute of Japan. All rights reserved.
[162] Schumacher, Lily A.,Groves, Norman R.,Conway, Daniel E. ,等.Characterizing force transfer across Arabidopsis thaliana linc complexes[M].BIOPHYSICAL JOURNAL,2025,124 (3),CELL PRESS
[163] Xiaolong Su,Man Zhou .Shear force transfer efficiency of tapered bridges with trapezoidal corrugated steel webs[J].Journal of Constructional Steel Research,2023,211 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study investigated the shear force transfer mechanism in a prestressed concrete (PC) tapered box girder bridge with trapezoidal corrugated steel webs (TCSWs) throughout the cantilever construction process by theoretical analysis, experimental verification, and finite element (FE) simulation. It has been determined that the assumption made in the current standards that TCSWs completely bear the shear force is inaccurate when designing tapered girders with TCSWs. The bending moment can cause a redistribution of shear force in a tapered case, which leads to the transfer of shear force from the TCSWs to the curved bottom flanges, resulting in the TCSWs and curved bottom flanges resisting shear force together. This study also reveals the shear force transfer efficiency in the maximum cantilever stage of the bridge. The results indicate that the shear bearing mechanism of the girder undergoes a gradual transition from a state where TCSWs are the primary shear resisting member at the section near the free end to a state where both TCSWs and the curved bottom flange collaborate to resist shear force as the section moves towards the pier. The study suggested that the maximum shear bearing ratio of the curved concrete bottom flange can reach 60.55% at the section near the pier, starting to replace the TCSWs as the main shear bearing member. Consequently, the shear force calculation method recommended by the existing standards may result in substantial computational errors, with the maximum error reaching as high as 155.62%. © 2023 Elsevier Ltd
[164] Liu, Shuai,Cai, Hong-Jiang,Yu, Lei ,等.Study on the Force Transfer Characteristics of Ultra-thin Cushion Spiral Case and its Feasibility in Pumped Storage Power Station[J].中国农村水利水电,2025,Editorial Office Of China Rural Water And Hydropower
摘要：Aiming at the disadvantages of complex construction process,high cost and long construction period of water-filled pressure-maintaining volute,a new embedding technology of ultra-thin cushion(1 mm class)volute is proposed in this paper. Combined with the specific conditions of a pumped storage power station,an axismetrical model of the inlet section of volute is established,and the force transmission characteristics of thin cushion volute and water-filled volute are systematically compared. The feasibility of substituting water-filled volute is studied. The results show that when thin cushion volute is used in pumped storage power station,the radial deformation of steel volute can be very close to that of water-filled volute,and the stress distribution law,load ratio and reinforcement amount of outer concrete are basically the same,which can also reduce the water pressure transfer in the volute and reduce the stress and reinforcement of outer concrete. In order to make the thin cushion scheme better replace the water-filling and pressure retaining scheme,it is suggested that the thickness of the thin cushion layer should be gradually reduced with the diameter of the volute section(1.0~0.5 mm),and the cushion covering angle should be as large as possible in the meridian section of the volute. © 2025 Editorial Office Of China Rural Water And Hydropower. All rights reserved.
[165] Jianmin Zhang,Guoyin Zhang,Yang Yang ,等.Restoring the Anteroposterior Shoulder Force Couple: Arthroscopic-Assisted Lower Trapezius Tendon Transfer With Partially Augmented Rotator Cuff Repair for Irreparable Massive Rotator Cuff Tears[J].Arthroscopy Techniques,2025,14 (1):103176-103176,Elsevier Science
摘要：Lower trapezius transfer presents a highly encouraging therapeutic approach for addressing posterosuperior irreparable massive rotator cuff tears. Based on studies on the balance of force couples of the rotator cuff, more scholars believe that attention should be paid to the reconstruction of the force couples of the rotator cuff. This study proposes a modified surgical approach that integrates an arthroscopic-assisted lower trapezius transfer with autologous hamstring tendon and partially augmented rotator cuff repair for irreparable massive rotator cuff tears, with a focus on restoring the anterior-posterior shoulder force couple.
[166] Nassief, Amaal Mohi,Abdulhadi, Ahmed M. .Peristaltic Transport of Non-Newtonian Fluid under Effects of Magnetic Force and Heat Transfer in a Symmetric Channel through a Porous Medium[J].Baghdad Science Journal,2024,21 (4):1339-1354,COLL SCIENCE WOMEN, UNIV BAGHDAD
摘要：In this paper, the effect of magnetic force and nonlinear thermal radiation for peristaltic transport of hybrid bio-nanofluid with the porous medium in a symmetric channel is discussed. The Adomain decomposition technique is utilized for explaining expressions for axial velocity, stream function, temperature, Nusselt number, pressure gradient, magnetic pressure, andmagnetic force. The finding shows that gold nanoparticles have an elevation velocity compared with copper nanoparticles, based fluids, and hybrid nanofluids. The magnetic force contours increase when the wave amplitude increases. The temperature and heat transfer rate have been examined clearly. It has been observed that rising thermal radiation increases temperatures. Lastly, the phenomenon of trapping is presented to explain the physical behavior of different parameters. The effects of physical parameters are examined through graphs by using the MATHMATICA software
[167] Benjamin D. Groff,Mauricio Cattaneo,Katheryn C. Rinaolo ,等.Disentangling Driving Force Effects, Polar Effects,e–/H+Imbalance, and Other Influences on H-Atom Transfer Reactions[J].Journal of the American Chemical Society,2025,147 (6):4766-4777,American Chemical Society
摘要：Hydrogen atom transfer (HAT) reactions and their kinetic barriers ΔGHAT‡are important in organic and inorganic chemistry. This study examines factors that influence ΔGHAT‡, reporting the kinetics and thermodynamics of HAT from various ruthenium bis(acetylacetonate) pyridine-imidazole complexes to nitroxyl radicals. Across these 36 reactions, the ΔGPT°and ΔGHAT°can be independently varied, with different sets of Ru complexes primarily tuning either their pKas or theirE°s. The ΔΔGHAT‡are analyzed using multiple linear free energy relationships (LFERs), the first largely experimental study of its kind. The barriers vary most strongly with the overall driving force, ΔΔGHAT‡= 0.28 × ΔΔGHAT°, but are also affected by HAT intrinsic barriers (λ), sterics, and the thermochemicale–/H+imbalance of the reactions, |ΔGPT°– ΔGET°|. The latter is a small but significant effect, revealed only by comparing LFERs. The imbalance analysis is closely related to traditional explanations of polar effects, but it is quantitative: ΔGHAT‡shifts by ∼4% with changes in |ΔGPT°– ΔGET°|. This is the same dependence as was observed for purely organic HAT from toluenes─a remarkable result because traditional explanations of organic polar effects, e.g., using X–H bond polarities, do not apply to the Ru complexes in which thee–and H+are spatially separated. This work demonstrates the strong similarities between different kinds of HAT reactions when viewed through the lens of H+/e–(PCET) free energies. This lens also shows that ΔGHAT‡are ∼10-fold more sensitive to changes in ΔGHAT°and λ than to thee–/H+free-energy imbalance.
[168] Hassan Roshani,Bahram Jalili,Amirmohammad Mirzaei ,等.The effect of buoyancy force on natural convection heat transfer of nanofluid flow in triangular cavity with different barriers[J].Heliyon,2024,10 (16),Elsevier Science
摘要：This article aims to investigate the thermophysical properties of viscous nanofluid in the two-dimensional geometry of a triangular cavity containing inverted triangle, square, and rhombus obstacles with different boundary conditions. The boundary conditions of the triangular cavity are investigated in two mechanisms: 1) uniform temperature at the base of the cavity and 2) non-uniform temperature (sinusoidal function) at the base of the cavity. The finite element method was used to solve the governing equations of the viscous nanofluid flow. The effect of flow control parameters on velocity and temperature profile is considered in a wide range of Rayleigh and Prandtl numbers. The innovation of this study is to use different obstacles in the two-dimensional geometry of the triangular cavity and compare their velocity profiles and temperature distribution in different boundary conditions. The results show that in the obstacles used in the triangular cavity, with the increase of buoyancy force and Rayleigh number, the values of velocities increased and caused the formation of vortex flow, and the pattern of velocity vectors in the cavity with the rule of uniform temperature has given a distinctive feature. Also, the application of trigonometric temperature functions in general and sinusoidal temperature functions in particular with high frequency can effectively create a vortex flow and increase the heat transfer rate.
[169] Wang, Yanhong,Lu, Yingnan,Li, Hongwei ,等.Influence and criterion of buoyancy force on heat transfer of supercritical CO2 in a vertical helical tube[J].北京航空航天大学学报,2023,49 (11):2929-2937,Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (BUAA)
摘要：Numerical research was done on the heat transmission of supercritical CO2 in a vertical helical tube based on the cooling heat transfer in the aeroengine intercooler. The influence mechanisms of the operating parameters on heat transfer along the flow and circumferential directions were investigated. The distributions of the temperature field and flow field in tube cross-sections were used to describe the circumferential non-uniform heat transmission mechanism generated by the buoyancy force and centrifugal force. The secondary flow velocity and intensity were analyzed. According to the tube structure characteristics, the reasonable buoyancy parameter and buoyancy criteria were proposed, and the new heat transfer correlation was obtained. The results show that the centrifugal force predominates in the tube downstream while the buoyancy force and centrifugal force combine to provide non-uniform heat transfer in the tube upstream. When the buoyancy factor Bu≥1.6×10−5 is satisfied, the buoyancy force plays a leading role in heat transfer. The new heat transfer correlation can better predict the heat transfer in the helical tube. © 2023 Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (BUAA). All rights reserved.
[170] Luo, Haitao,Liu, Ziyang,Fan, Chaohui ,等.Analysis and Experimental Study of Excitation Force Transfer Path of Optical Satellite Refrigeration Module[J].Aerospace,2023,10 (1),MDPI
摘要：When the problem of the reaction force under the receiver structure is complicated, the existing force-based transfer path analysis method is not suitable for its analysis. Therefore, an improved reaction force transfer path analysis method is proposed in this paper. In the transfer path analysis method based on the modal superposition method, the penalty function method is introduced, and the path contribution of the receiving end reaction force is evaluated by analyzing the displacement response of the connection between the transfer path and the receiving end. A simulation analysis of a satellite refrigeration module vibration isolation device designed by the research group identified the main factors affecting the vibration isolation efficiency of the vibration isolation ring, and provided guidance for subsequent further optimization. The device was tested and analyzed by building an experimental platform, and the obtained simulation data fit well with the test data. These conclusions further show that the proposed analysis method can more accurately and conveniently analyze the path contribution of the receiving end reaction force under specific working conditions. This method is suitable for analyzing the transfer path of the reaction force at the receiving end in the design stage.
[171] Han, Feng,Han, Hua,Zhong, Pengrui ,等.Study on Surface Configurations and Force Transfer Mechanism of Dual-Wedge Shaped Slips for Liner Hanger[J].Energies,2023,16 (7),MDPI
摘要：The penetration force and depth of the slip teeth are important factors influencing the hanging capacity of liner hanger, which can lead to failure of well cementation. In this study, a method to calculate the penetration force of dual-wedge slip teeth was presented by considering the surface configuration and the force transfer mechanism of dual-wedge slip in three dimensions. The interaction between dual-wedge slips and casing was simulated using ABAQUS 6.14 software, and the contact force (penetration force) was obtained. Experimental research was carried out to verify the correction of calculation and simulation. The strain of casing was obtained after the dual-wedge slips set under axial loads. The experimental results, theoretical prediction, and the numerical simulation are in good agreement. The effects of geometrical parameters on force transfer characteristics were discussed, which shows that the penetration force of dual-wedge slips increases with increase in the liner weight and Eulerian angle ?, and it decreases with the increase in Eulerian angle a and friction coefficient. The geometric parameters of the dual-wedge slip can be designed to obtain an optimal penetration force, and ensure that the slip teeth penetrate into the inner wall of casing without damage to the casing. The penetration force can be obtained by optimizing the parameters related to geometry of dual-wedge slips.
[172] Xia Yang,Cheng-shuo Han,Jun-jie He ,等.Force transfer mechanism and shear performance of perfobond strip connector encased in UHPC[J].Journal of Building Engineering,2025,106 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：This study aims to investigate the load-transfer mechanism of Perfobond Leiste (PBL) shear connectors between ultra-high performance concrete (UHPC) slabs and steel beams. Twelve standard push-out specimens were designed and tested to examine the effects of the number of holes, hole spacing, steel fiber content, and perforating rebar diameter on the shear performance of PBLs. The failure modes, load-slip curves, and shear performance of the specimens were analyzed via test results. Additionally, based on a validated finite element analysis model, the load-transfer mechanism of PBL shear connectors was further investigated, and the influences of hole diameter, UHPC strength, and perforating rebar yield strength were explored. The results indicated that steel fibers and perforating rebars significantly influenced the failure modes of the specimens. As the steel fiber content increased from 0 % to 3 %, the initial shear stiffness, shear capacity, and failure slip increased by 184.9 %, 253.4 %, and 66.7 %, respectively. When the number of holes increased from 1 to 3, the average shear stiffness and shear capacity per hole decreased by 15.4 % and 7.2 %, respectively. For double-hole PBL connectors, the initial load-sharing ratio between the two holes was approximately 0.7, increasing to 0.9 at peak load. The recommended hole spacing for PBLs in UHPC was 120 mm, as it provided the best shear performance. Given that the group effect had a more significant impact on shear stiffness than shear capacity, it is essential to account for reduction factors when calculating the shear stiffness of multi-row PBL configurations. Based on experimental results and finite element analysis, improved prediction equations for the shear stiffness and shear capacity of single-row and multi-row PBLs encased in UHPC were proposed, and their accuracy and applicability were validated using an experimental database.
[173] Jingchen Leng,Jun Yang,Zhongya Zhang ,等.Experimental and numerical investigations on force transfer mechanism of steel-concrete joint in hybrid girder bridges[J].Structures,2023,54 :153-170,Elsevier Science
摘要：Steel-concrete joint is the core force transfer node of hybrid girder bridges. However, the load transfer mechanism of steel–concrete joint has not been understood enough, due to the material discontinuity, abrupt change of stiffness, and complex structure. In this paper, the model test of a typical steel–concrete joint in hybrid girder bridges and the push-out tests of its main force transfer components were carried out. The load-slip curve, stress distribution, and failure mode of the specimens were compared and discussed. The test results show that the steel–concrete joint possesses favorable axial stiffness and bearing capacity. The ultimate failure mode of the joint was reached when the steel beam segment adjacent to the steel–concrete joint buckled. However, the steel–concrete joint was still comparatively intact and in the elastic state during the loading process. In addition, the internal force transfer mechanism and characteristics of the steel–concrete joint were analyzed by finite element method. In terms of the force transfer rate, the bearing plate, perfobond leiste (PBL) connectors, and end face of the T-shaped steel girder transferred 72.9 %, 7.9 %, and 19.2 % of the total axial force, respectively. The redundancy analysis shows that the bearing capacity redundancy of the joint is 1.52. The joint has sufficient bearing capacity redundancy, but the ultimate bearing capacity of the joint as well as its adjacent areas is determined by the axially loaded steel beam segment. © 2023
[174] Wang, Haibo,Zeng, Haozhe,Wu, Xun ,等.Simplified Calculation Model and Experimental Validation of the Force Transfer Ratio of Steel-Concrete Joint of Hybrid Box Girder[J].Materials,2023,16 (14):5091,MDPI
摘要：The axial force transfer ratio of steel-concrete joints in hybrid box girder bridges is crucial for bridge design. However, the current standard oversimplifies the transfer ratio distribution coefficients, and both model tests and finite element analysis are time- and labor-intensive. This article proposes a simplified calculation model based on the deformation coordination theory to estimate the transfer ratio of the axial force between the bearing plate and shear connectors of the steel-concrete joint under compression bending conditions. Additionally, a large-scale model (1/5 scale) is established, and the mechanical properties of the steel-concrete joint section under compression-bending conditions are experimentally tested. A three-dimensional finite element model is developed and verified using the obtained test data. Results confirm the favorable mechanical properties and ample safety reserve of the SCJ, with all components remaining within the elastic stage under 1.6 times design conditions. By comparing the axial force transfer ratios obtained from the simplified calculation model and the finite element model, a small difference is observed, validating the reliability of the simplified calculation model. This paper provides a straightforward and efficient method for the design and evaluation of steel-concrete joints in hybrid box girder bridges.
[175] Yang, Ke,Wu, Xianghui,Liu, Wenjie ,等.Research on force chain transfer law of overlying rock and strong mining pressure control under the collaborative breaking effect of double key layers[J].采矿与岩层控制工程学报,2025,7 (4),Editorial Office of Journal of Mining and Strata Control Engineering
摘要：The mechanism of strong mining pressure of thick coal seam under dual key strata conditions mining is unclear, making the prediction of weighting intervals and disaster control difficult. Taking the 11223 working face in the Huainan mining area as an engineering case, the overburden migration patterns and dynamic force chain transfer mechanism under synergistic fracture of dual key strata were investigated by integrating discrete element numerical simulation, theoretical analysis and field practice. A support-surrounding rock bearing model for dual key strata fracture was established. The results demonstrate that the lower key stratum I, directly affected by mining disturbances, exhibits periodic fracturing with an average interval of 25 m, forming a "cantilever-step rock beam" composite structure that triggers minor periodic weighting. In contrast, the upper key stratum II, influenced by stress transfer hysteresis, breaks at an interval of 40 m with a fracture angle of 73°. Its instability induces transfer amplitude of kinetic energy up to 4.2 times the initial value, causing the peak abutment stress to surge to 48 MPa (28% exceeding the rated support resistance), which is identified as the primary cause of major periodic intense mining pressure. The fracture of dual key strata governs stress field evolution through force chain network reconstruction. Fracture of key stratum I forms a localized "pressure arch" structure, while fracture of key stratum II triggers asymmetric tension-compression alternation, driving the stress field through a three-stage evolution of "local unloading, regional transfer, and global reconstruction". A deep-hole pre-splitting blasting weakening scheme was proposed based on dynamic load superposition mechanisms. After field implementation, periodic weighting intervals decreased from 25 m to 16 m, the dynamic load coefficient of supports decreased from 1.5 to 1.3, and the peak roof pressure recuded by 46.7%. These findings provide theoreti
[176] Nitschke, Arnd,Neumann, Steffen,Gerber, Siegfried ,等.Design of a force transfer standard for the calibration of periodical forces in material testing machines with quantification of parasitical influences[J].tm - Technisches Messen,2023,90 (6):387-400,WALTER DE GRUYTER GMBH
摘要：The European EURAMET project ,,18SIB08 - ComTraForce - Comprehensive Traceability for Force Metrology Services" (18SIB08 - ComTraForce - Comprehensive Traceablility for Force Metrology Services. Available at: [abgerufen am: Feb. 10, 2023]) consists of seven work packages. One of that is dedicated to the development of a full traceability chain for dynamic force calibration of materials testing systems. An essential activity to meet the requirements is the development of a dynamic force transfer standard considering inertial forces and full traceability. At the beginning measurements with a specimen with strain gage bridge were carried out for dynamic force verifications as suggested in ASTM E467 (ASTM E467-21, Standard Practice for Verification of Constant Amplitude Dynamic Forces in an Axial Fatigue Testing System, West Conshohocken, United States, ASTM International, 2021) which is calibrated statically according to DIN EN ISO 7500-1 (DIN EN ISO7500:2018-06, Metallische Werkstoffe - Kalibrierung und uberprufung von statischen einachsigen Prufmaschinen - Teil 1: Zug- und Druckprufmaschinen - Kalibrierung und uberprufung der Kraftmesseinrichtung (ISO 7500-1:2018), Berlin, Beuth Verlag, 2018) first. However, this applied specimen will represent only one of the possible test configurations of the materials testing system. Thus, the aim was to develop one specimen-like transfer standard, in best case usable for dynamic force calibrations in all configurations of materials testing systems. Finally a dynamic force transfer standard consisting of two parts was developed. The first part, specimen-like and named dynamometer, is applied with strain gages in different planes to measure force, bending strains and temperature. Furthermore, additional masses can be connected to investigate different mass distributions. The stiffness of the calibration setup can be adjusted by the second part, called stiffness adapter, to different stiffness configurations of materials testing. T
[177] Isamura, Bienfait K.,Popelier, Paul L. A. .Transfer learning of hyperparameters for fast construction of anisotropic GPR models: design and application to the machine-learned force field FFLUX[J].Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics,2024,26 (36):23677-23691,ROYAL SOC CHEMISTRY
摘要：The polarisable machine-learned force field FFLUX requires pre-trained anisotropic Gaussian process regression (GPR) models of atomic energies and multipole moments to propagate unbiased molecular dynamics simulations. The outcome of FFLUX simulations is highly dependent on the predictive accuracy of the underlying models whose training entails determining the optimal set of model hyperparameters. Unfortunately, traditional direct learning (DL) procedures do not scale well on this task, especially when the hyperparameter search is initiated from a (set of) random guess solution(s). Additionally, the complexity of the hyperparameter space (HS) increases with the number of geometrical input features, at least for anisotropic kernels, making the optimization of hyperparameters even more challenging. In this study, we propose a transfer learning (TL) protocol that accelerates the training process of anisotropic GPR models by facilitating access to promising regions of the HS. The protocol is based on a seeding-relaxation mechanism in which an excellent guess solution is identified by rapidly building one or several small source models over a subset of the target training set before readjusting the previous guess over the entire set. We demonstrate the performance of this protocol by building and assessing the performance of DL and TL models of atomic energies and charges in various conformations of benzene, ethanol, formic acid dimer and the drug fomepizole. Our experiments suggest that TL models can be built one order of magnitude faster while preserving the quality of their DL analogs. Most importantly, when deployed in FFLUX simulations, TL models compete with or even outperform their DL analogs when it comes to performing FFLUX geometry optimization and computing harmonic vibrational modes. This work introduces a transfer learning (TL) protocol that accelerates the training of anisotropic Gaussian process regression models while preserving their excellent predictive
[178] Aziz Ullah Awan,Sidra Qayyum,Bagh Ali ,等.Optimization of heat transfer and entropy for Maxwell dusty fluid: Significance of Lorentz force and variable viscosity[J].Engineering Science and Technology, an International Journal,2025,69 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Dusty fluids are an indispensable source of efficient heat production with many applications in many scientific and technical fields. The incorporation of dust nanoparticles, characterized by their enhanced thermal properties, broadens the range of potential applications to include complex domains such as chemical and mechanical engineering and cutting-edge technological environments. The main aim of this investigation is to explore the momentum and thermal transfer properties of a magnetohydrodynamics Maxwell nanofluid passing through an inclined surface while carrying conductive dust particles as a volume fraction. This study provides a means to optimize thermal systems in engineering and technological settings by examining dusty Maxwell nanofluids under magnetic and convective circumstances. The problem is theoretically simulated by incorporating the mixed convective situation and magnetic influence. Furthermore, analyzing the Bejan number and entropy generation reveals the stream’s delicate aspects. Using similarity transformation, the heat transfer and fluid flow controlling equations are converted into ordinary differential equations that are nonlinear, which are solved numerically by a shooting approach. The effects of dimensionless controlling factors on flow velocity, Bejan number, entropy generation rate, and thermal profiles are examined and shown using graphics. Additionally, the Nusselt number and friction factor are computed. The results demonstrated that the mixed convection parameter and the dusty-fluid interaction variable increase the entropy production and the Bejan number. It is also explored that the velocity and thermal profile exhibit distinguishing behavior for increasing magnetic variables. The Bejan number and the entropy generation rate show an increasing trend as the Maxwell fluid parameter rises. The improved elastic effects of the Maxwell fluid, which increase internal friction and heat transfer irreversibility, cause this rise. Compare
[179] Ajour, Mohammed N.,Rawa, Muhyaddin J. H.,Milyani, Ahmad H. ,等.Heat transfer of nanomaterial and physical behavior in a complexly shaped solar unit with a variable external force[J].International Journal of Modern Physics B,2024,38 (26),WORLD SCIENTIFIC PUBL CO PTE LTD
摘要：In order to improve convective flow, this study primarily used techniques including curved surfaces and a strong magnetic force. Cold temperatures and even flow are experienced by both the circular outer wall and the sinusoidal inner wall. FHD can have a bigger effect when combined with iron oxide in the base fluid. The electric current-carrying wire was positioned close to the interior wall in order to produce Kelvin force. A novel modeling approach was chosen to ascertain the number of scalars throughout the entire domain, and the process was validated using earlier numerical work. Gravity forces, ferrofluid concentrations, and the Kelvin force serve as the main pillars of current research. Conduction features increase and the Nu rises by 12.44% when nanopowders are used. Due to gravity and magnetic forces, the nanofluid can move more easily through the container. At Ra=1e3 and 1e4, respectively, Nu increases by 93.04% and 35.43%;with an increase in Mn-F. Additionally, Nu rises with Ra at Mn-F=0 and Mn-F=4000 by 43.55% and 0.71%, respectively.
[180] Ullah, Fahim,Zhu, Linfeng,Xiong, Shusheng ,等.A predictive RSM-based optimization with sensitivity analysis of hydrodynamic drag force in non-Newtonian fluid flow: enhanced heat transfer systems[J].International Journal of Numerical Methods for Heat & Fluid Flow,2026,EMERALD GROUP PUBLISHING LTD
摘要：Purpose This study aims to develop a reliable computational-statistical framework to predict and minimize hydrodynamic drag in unsteady magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) Carreau fluid flow over a rotating cone with Joule heating, supporting the design of energy-efficient heat-transfer equipment. The governing PDEs are reduced via similarity transformations and solved numerically using a shooting method to quantify how key parameters (Weissenberg, magnetic, unsteady, Prandtl and Eckert numbers) influence tangential and azimuthal skin-friction. Response surface methodology with ANOVA and sensitivity analysis is then used to identify dominant effects and parameter interactions for ***/methodology/approach The governing boundary-layer PDEs for MHD Carreau flow over a rotating cone with Joule heating are reduced to a coupled set of nonlinear ODEs using similarity transformations. The resulting boundary-value problem is solved numerically via a shooting scheme by replacing the far-field condition with a finite truncated boundary and iterating on unknown initial slopes to satisfy the boundary conditions. A response surface methodology (RSM) quadratic model is then built for the tangential and azimuthal skin-friction coefficients, with ANOVA and sensitivity analysis used to quantify significant main and interaction *** The coupled numerical-statistical framework shows that all considered inputs and their interactions are statistically significant in predicting drag (via ANOVA), and the RSM quadratic models exhibit strong predictive capability for both tangential and azimuthal skin-friction coefficients. The results indicate that increasing fluid elasticity (higher Weissenberg number) slightly reduces skin friction (approximately 0.35%). Sensitivity analysis identifies the Weissenberg number and unsteadiness as the most influential factors for tangential ***/value This work introduces an integrated computational-statistical framework for dra
[181] Amontree, Jacob,Chen, Kangfu,Varillas, Jose ,等.A Capillary-Force-Driven, Single-Cell Transfer Method for Studying Rare Cells[J].Bioengineering,2024,11 (6):542,MDPI
摘要：The characterization of individual cells within heterogeneous populations (e.g., rare tumor cells in healthy blood cells) has a great impact on biomedical research. To investigate the properties of these specific cells, such as genetic biomarkers and/or phenotypic characteristics, methods are often developed for isolating rare cells among a large number of background cells before studying their genetic makeup and others. Prior to using real-world samples, these methods are often evaluated and validated by spiking cells of interest (e.g., tumor cells) into a sample matrix (e.g., healthy blood) as model samples. However, spiking tumor cells at extremely low concentrations is challenging in a standard laboratory setting. People often circumvent the problem by diluting a solution of high-concentration cells, but the concentration becomes inaccurate after series dilution due to the fact that a cell suspension solution can be inhomogeneous, especially when the cell concentration is very low. We report on an alternative method for low-cost, accurate, and reproducible low-concentration cell spiking without the use of external pumping systems. By inducing a capillary force from sudden pressure drops, a small portion of the cellular membrane was aspirated into the reservoir tip, allowing for non-destructive single-cell transfer. We investigated the surface membrane tensions induced by cellular aspiration and studied a range of tip/tumor cell diameter combinations, ensuring that our method does not affect cell viability. In addition, we performed single-cell capture and transfer control experiments using human acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells (CCRF-CEM) to develop calibrated data for the general production of low-concentration samples. Finally, we performed affinity-based tumor cell isolation using this method to generate accurate concentrations ranging from 1 to 15 cells/mL.
[182] Yuting Ye,Qingyan Deng,Jianghong Wu ,等.Electrostatic Force-Assisted Transfer of Flexible Silicon Photodetector Focal Plane Arrays for Image Sensors[J].ACS Applied Materials and Interfaces,2024,16 (30):39572-39579,American Chemical Society
摘要：Flexible photodetectors are pivotal in contemporary optoelectronic technology applications, such as data reception and image sensing, yet their performance and yield are often hindered by the challenge of heterogeneous integration between photoactive materials and flexible substrates. Here, we showcase the potential of an electrostatic force-assisted transfer printing technique for integrating Si PIN photodiodes onto flexible substrates. This clean and dry process eliminates the need for chemical etchants, making it a highly desirable method for manufacturing high-performance flexible photodetector arrays, expanding their widespread applications in electronic eyes, robotics, and human–machine interaction. As a demonstration, a 5 × 5 flexible Si photodetector focal plane array is constructed for imaging sensors and shaped into a convex semicylindrical form to achieve a π field of view with long-term mechanical and thermal stability. Such an approach provides a high yield rate and consistent performance, with the single photodetector demonstrating exceptional characteristics, including a responsivity of 0.61 A/W, a response speed of 39.77 MHz, a linear dynamic range of 108.53 dB, and a specific detectivity of 2.75 × 1012Jones at an applied voltage of −3 V at 940 nm.
[183] Zhaochi Lu,Huan He,Guangyin Du ,等.Vibratory probe compaction of recycled concrete aggregates: Unveiling force and energy transfer mechanisms with particle redistribution[J].Transportation Geotechnics,2025,52 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The global rise in construction waste has increased the use of recycled concrete aggregates (RCA), which show potential as fill materials in geotechnical engineering despite weak mechanical properties due to cement mortar coatings. This study examines the effectiveness of vibratory probe compaction in enhancing RCA properties through model tests. Optimal compaction parameters, including a frequency of 11.2 Hz and duration of 80 s, were determined. Vibration and soil pressure sensors revealed energy transfer concentrated near the probe tip, significantly increasing horizontal stress, particularly in deeper layers, where it rose up to eightfold. Light-weight dynamic cone penetrometer tests showed a 3–6 fold increase in blow counts, correlating with a 19.7 % density improvement. Gradation analysis indicated particle segregation, with smaller particles settling downward and larger ones moving upward, though minimal global breakage occurred. Extra fines are observed at the base produced from mortar abrasion which in turn, allowed the enhancement of intergranular contact development, therefore improving overall stiffness and strength. These findings confirm that vibratory probe compaction effectively improves RCA's mechanical properties, demonstrating strong potential for practical engineering applications.
[184] Tao, Zi-Yu,Wang, Yi-Min,He, Wei ,等.Identification of line-source transfer mobility and force density by ground acceleration measurements[J].Environmental Science and Pollution Research,2023,30 (19):54498-54510,SPRINGER HEIDELBERG
摘要：Ground-borne vibration caused by railway traffic has been a research concern due to its possible side effects on nearby residences. The force density and line-source mobility can effectively characterize the generation and transmission of train-induced vibrations, respectively. This research proposed a frequency-domain method for identifying the line-source transfer mobility and force density using measured vibrations at the ground surface, which was on the basis of the least-square method. The proposed method was applied to a case study at Shenzhen Metro in China, where a total of seven fixed-point hammer impacts with 3.3 m equal intervals were used to represent the train vibration excitations. Line-source transfer mobility of the site and force density levels of the metro train were identified, respectively. Causes for different dominant frequencies can be traced by separating the dynamic characteristics of vibration excitation and transmission. It was found in the case study that at a location 3 m away from the track, the peak at 50 Hz was caused by excitations, while that at 63 Hz was attributed to transmission efficiency related to the soil properties. Subsequently, numerical validations of the fixed-point loads' assumption and identified force density levels were carried out. Good comparisons between numerically predicted and experimentally identified force density levels indicated the feasibility of the proposed method. At last, the identified line-source transfer mobility and force density levels were applied to the forward problem, i.e., making predictions of train-induced vibrations. The predicted ground and structural vibrations at different locations were compared to corresponding measurements, with good agreement, which experimentally validated the identification method. The identification results of the case study can be employed by similar railway systems as a good reference.
[185] Kuznetsov, N.K.,Zyryanov, I.V.,Iov, I.A. ,等.Elastic damping device with lever mechanism of force transfer for open pit excavators[J].Gornyi Zhurnal,2024,2024 (2):71-76,Ore and Metals Publishing house
摘要：The article proposes a method for the parametric synthesis of an elastic damping device installed in the boom suspension mechanism of a mining excavator and equipped with a lever mechanism for transmitting force. It is shown that an effective tool for choosing the parameters of elastic damping devices is the concept of integration of the inverse dynamic problems with the methods of structural mathematical modeling. Representation of the well-known designs of elastic damping devices with a lever mechanism in the form of transfer functions, followed by solving an inverse problem for a given nature of transient processes makes it possible to obtain analytical dependencies that link the physical parameters of the mechanical system with the quality indicators of these processes. Based on the three-mass design scheme of the digging mechanism of the excavator, a system of differential equations was obtained and a transition was made to a structural mathematical model of a damping device with regard to the moment of inertia of the boom, the stiffness of the suspension cable and the parameters of the lever mechanism. The procedure for synthesizing the parameters of an elastic damping device with a lever mechanism of force transfer is described, which ensures the limitation of dynamic loads in the digging mechanism, and the results of numerical simulation are presented, confirming the effectiveness of this device and the operability of the proposed synthesis method. The obtained parameters of the elastic damping device and the lever transfer coefficient make it possible to reduce the dynamic loads in the cable of the hoisting mechanism with a significant increase in the damping properties of the mechanical system, which will lead to a reduction in emergency failures, and to an increase in the working life of the boom and dipper of a mining excavator. © 2024, Ore and Metals Publishing house. All rights reserved.
[186] Liu, Guoqiang,Huang, Tao,Lyu, Lei ,等.Effective Load Transfer Capacity Analysis for Asphalt Mixture Skeleton Based on Main Force Chain Characteristics and Discrete Element Method[J].Journal of Materials in Civil Engineering,2023,35 (9),ASCE-AMER SOC CIVIL ENGINEERS
摘要：To clarify the effective load transfer capacity of asphalt mixture skeletons, granular material mechanics and the discrete-element method (DEM) were introduced to analyze the morphological characteristics of skeleton main force chains (MFCs). Results indicate that the greater number of MFCs is not relevant to higher effective transfer load capacity for the skeleton. An increase in the relative ratio of the III type of force chain in MFC is not conducive to transferring external loading effectively. The MFC number gradually decreases with an increase in nominal maximum aggregate size (NMAS), and the proportion of MFC increases for dense-graded asphalt concrete (AC). For stone matrix asphalt (SMA), the increase of NMAS will reduce the quasilinearity of MFC and be conducive to forming longer MFC, especially for the I type of force chain. An increase of content with aggregate size less than 2.36 mm can improve the number ratio of the III type of force chain. Therefore, an increase in the passing rate of 2.36 mm (P2.36) is not conducive to transferring external loading for AC.
[187] Zhang, Zhentai,Yue, Qingxia .Study on influence of web member stiffness on structural internal force and seismic performance in vierendeel truss transfer structure[J].建筑科学与工程学报,2025,42 (1):90-100,Editorial Department of Journal of Architecture and Civil Engineering
摘要：In order to investigate the influence of web member stiffness on the overall mechanical performance of the structure, an vierendeel web truss transfer frame structure model considering model different web stiffness was established, and dynamic analyses were conducted under vertical loads and seismic increments. The results show that appropriately increasing the stiffness of the web member can reduce the peak bending moment of the upper and lower chord members and increase the vertical stiffness. When the stiffness ratio of the web member to the chord member approaches 0.8, the positive bending moments at the mid span position of the lower chord member and the web member position are approximately the same. With the increase of seismic intensity, the influence of web stiffness on the seismic performance of structures significantly increases. When the stiffness of the web increases, the anti-collapse ability of the structure decreases in rare or extremely rare earthquakes, and the anti-collapse reserve coefficient decreases. When the ratio of linear stiffness of the side web member to the chord member increases from 0.078 to 1.323, the probability of structure reaching the level of life safety performance under rare earthquake action increases by 44%, and the probability of reaching the level of collapse prevention performance under extremely rare earthquake action increases by 98%. For the web member stiffness of the vierendeel truss transfer structure, the impact of its changes on the internal forces and seismic performance of the structure should be comprehensively considered for optimization design. © 2025, Editorial Department of Journal of Architecture and Civil Engineering. All rights reserved.
[188] Hanchao Zhang,Guoliang Ren,Peng Jia ,等.Development of machine learning force field for thermal conductivity analysis in MoAlB: Insights into anisotropic heat transfer mechanisms[J].Ceramics International,2024,50 (8):13740-13749,Elsevier Science
摘要：The MAB phases have garnered significant attention as a new generation high-temperature structural materials due to their outstanding high-temperature mechanical properties, resistance to oxidation at elevated temperatures, low-temperature synthesis, and machining capabilities. The chemically anisotropic bonding within MAB phases leads to unique anisotropic elastic properties, oxidation behavior, and electrical characteristics, posing challenges in understanding the structure-property relationships. To address this challenge, we leveraged recent advances in machine learning force fields based on quantum mechanics methods. Using ab initio molecular dynamics simulations, we constructed a comprehensive dataset and developed an accurate machine learning force field for the Mo–Cr–Al–B system based on deep neural network. We then employed non-equilibrium molecular dynamics simulations to calculate the phonon thermal conductivity of MoAlB, investigating its temperature dependence and anisotropy. Our analysis includes phonon density of states, phonon participation ratio, and spectral heat flux analysis, shedding light on the temperature-dependent anisotropy of phonon thermal conductivity in MoAlB. This work not only provides a reliable force field for large-scale molecular dynamics simulations but also advances our understanding of the composition-structure-performance relationship in MAB phases. © 2024 Elsevier Ltd and Techna Group S.r.l.
[189] Bahreini, Sayed Hamid,Saghafian, Mohsen,Akbari, Omid Ali .Heat transfer across the dynamics of water conveying alumina nanoparticles subject to Lorentz force in a rectangular cavity with various aspect ratios[J].Journal of Thermal Analysis and Calorimetry,2023,148 (6):2251-2264,SPRINGER
摘要：Heat transfer in cavities under the influence of magnetic field is very important in industry. The effect of the presence of a magnetic field on the behavior of heat transfer in closed cavities (electrical transformers) is inevitable, which is addressed in this research. The present study is about the heat transfer of water/alumina nanofluid in a rectangular cavity. The cavity has two insulated walls in front of each other, a constant temperature warm wall at an angle of zero with the horizontal and a constant temperature cold wall. A constant magnetic force with Hartmann number of Ha = 0-45 is applied, which has a zero angle with respect to the horizontal line. The Rayleigh number is Ra = 10(5), and the problem is solved for various length-to-width cavity aspect ratios of AR = 1-6. In this paper, the solution method uses a finite volume discretization with a pressure-based and segregated algorithm. Results revealed that for AR = 1, the temperature contours have a decreasing trend from top to bottom, as it experiences the maximum and minimum temperatures near the warm and cold walls. For this aspect ratio, the minimum dimensionless temperature occurs at the dimensionless position of X = 0.7-0.8 for various Hartmann numbers, which also coincides with the maximum Nusselt number. For the aspect ratio of AR = 2, increasing the magnetic force results in a higher Lorentz force, which opposes the buoyancy force, reducing the local Nusselt number. However, for AR = 4, increasing the magnetic force creates straight isothermal lines. For this aspect ratio, the isothermal lines are close to each other near the warm wall at two points of X = 0.3 and 0.7, with a slight temperature difference, thereby maximizing the Nusselt number. For AR = 6 and all Hartmann numbers, the Nusselt number is maximum at two points of X = 0.34 and 0.65, while the minimum is located at X = 0.2, 0.5, and 0.8.
[190] Yanfang He,Aihua Yuan,Iltaf Khan ,等.Giant Charge Separation-Driving Force Together with Ultrafluent Charge Transfer in TiO2/ZnFe-LDH Photoelectrode via Ferroelectric Interface Engineering[J].Inorganic Chemistry,2024,63 (47):22386-22398,American Chemical Society
摘要：Hydrogen fuel production using photoelectrochemical (PEC) water-splitting technology is incredibly noteworthy as it provides a sustainable and clean method to alleviate the energy environmental crisis. A highly rapid electron shuttle at the semiconductor/WOC (water oxidation cocatalyst) interface is vital to improve the bulk charge transfer and surface reaction kinetics of the photoelectrode in the PEC water-splitting system. Yet, the inevitably inferior interface transition tends to plague the performance enhancement on account of the collision of hole–electron transport across the semi/cat interface. Herein, we address these critical challenges via inserting ferroelectric layer BTO (BaTiO3) into the semi/cat interface. The embedded polarization electric field induced by ferroelectric BTO remarkably pumped hole transfer at the semiconductor/WOC (TiO2/ZnFe-LDH) interface and selectively tailored the electronic structure of LDH surface-active sites, leading to overwhelmingly improved surface hole transfer kinetics at LDH/electrolyte interface, which minish the electron–hole recombination in bulk and on the surface of TiO2. The TiO2nanorods encapsulated by ferroelectric-assisted ZnFe-LDH achieve 105% charge separation efficiency improvement and 53.8% charge injection efficiency enhancement compared with pure TiO2. This finding offers a strategic design for electrocatalytic-assisted photoelectrode systems by ferroelectric-pumped charge extraction and transfer at the semiconductor/WOC interface.
[191] Miceli, Verdiana,Pedone, Livio,D’Amore, Simone ,等.Numerical investigation of displacement compatibility and interaction between reinforced concrete walls forming a system[M].fib Symposium,2023,fib. The International Federation for Structural Concrete
摘要：Previous research works pointed out that the displacement compatibility between walls of different lengths working in parallel may lead to a variation in seismic behaviour when compared to the same walls considered independently. Thus, as a part of a broader research project, this paper investigates the seismic behaviour of a system of two reinforced concrete walls of different lengths through a refined numerical model in DIANA. Results show that the shortest wall is characterised by a larger base shear and a smaller yielding displacement when analysed as part of the system rather than independently. Thus, neglecting the interaction between the system elements might lead to an unconservative estimation of shear demand in the shorter walls. © Fédération Internationale du Béton-International Federation for Structural Concrete.
[192] Lambreva, Maya D.,Zobnina, Veranika,Antal, Taras K. ,等.Redesign of the Chlamydomonas reinhardtii QB binding niche reveals photosynthesis works in the absence of a driving force for QA-QB electron transfer[J].Physiologia Plantarum,2024,176 (6),WILEY
摘要：An in silico redesign of the secondary quinone electron acceptor (QB) binding pocket of the D1 protein of Photosystem II (PSII) suggested that mutations of the F265 residue would affect atrazine binding. Chlamydomonas reinhardtii mutants F265T and F265S were produced to obtain atrazine-hypersensitive strains for biosensor applications, and the mutants were indeed found to be more atrazine-sensitive than the reference strain IL. Fluorescence and thermoluminescence data agree with a weak driving force and confirm slow electron transfer but cannot exclude an additional effect on protonation of the secondary quinone. Both mutants grow autotrophically, indicating that PSII requires strong light for optimal function, as was the case in the ancestral homodimeric reaction center.
[193] Wasserlauf, Jeremiah,Sukumar, Aravin,Al-Dujaili, Saja ,等.Comparison of Steerable Sheaths for Radiofrequency Ablation: Contact Force & Torque Transfer[J].Journal of Cardiovascular Electrophysiology,2024,35 (6):1306-1307,WILEY
[194] Silva, Hugo Miguel .Formulation of a Torsion Displacement Equation for the Compatibility with Bending in Rectangular Section Thin-Walled Hollow-Box Beams[J].Engineering Proceedings *,2025,87 (1),Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute (MDPI)
摘要：In this work, a novel analytical equation is developed to accurately predict the mechanical behavior of thin-walled beams. The FEM was used for building the model and obtaining the results. The new equation developed is useful for the calculation of the displacement of a beam simply supported at its ends subjected to torsion loads, applied in opposite side areas of the Finite Element Method (FEM) model. The software Eureqa 1.24.0 was used to find hidden analytical models that were validated thereafter. The aim is to provide a formula that makes possible the comparison of analytic calculations with numerical calculations on bending and torsion combined load. A FEM model of a hollow-box beam with rectangular cross-section loaded with torsion was built and analytical calculations were performed. The analytic calculations were compared with the numeric results in order to know if the results are approximated. The results show good agreement. In the future, other models, such as internally reinforced beams, could also be tested with this methodology. Also, different conditions could be applied to the model studied in this work in order to evaluate the limitations and validity of the developed analytical model. © 2025 by the author.
[195] Ziqiang Liu,Yue Zhou,Yafang Zhang ,等.Research on heat transfer and force safety characteristics of power batteries based on flexible composite phase change materials[J].Applied Thermal Engineering,2025,265 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：Heat accumulation and external damage are the two key factors affecting the normal operation of power batteries. To ensure safe battery operation, this study prepared several flexible composite phase change material (CPCM), analyzed their material characteristics, and investigated the role of CPCM in battery heat dissipation and external force resistance through a combination of experimental and simulation methods. Material characterization revealed that all CPCMs based on Silica gel (SG) encapsulation exhibited very low leakage and good thermal conductivity. The flame retardant effect of paraffin wax (PW)/expanded graphite (EG)/SG/graphite powder (GP) mixed with GP during combustion was significantly better than that of PW/EG/SG/ammonium polyphosphate (APP), with the former releasing less CO gas and smoke during combustion. Encapsulating the battery with PW/EG/SG/GP can help both single cells and battery packs resist the impact of a 5.6 m/s iron ball (8 cm diameter). At the same time, when the vehicle body experiences vibrations such as backward tilt, lateral tilt, or forward tilt, wrapping the battery pack with CPCM can reduce external pressure on the battery. PW/EG/SG/GP also demonstrated excellent battery thermal management (BTM) performance, with battery temperatures remaining below 45 °C after the battery pack underwent 2–3 high intensity discharge–charge cycles, and the CPCM-wrapped battery module exhibited good temperature uniformity.
[196] Zhao, Manshu,Wang, Xinhua,Wang, Shuguang ,等.Long- lasting organics removal via •OH adsorbed transition metal flocs: Electron transfer- mediated H- bond and van der Waals force[J].Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,2024,121 (37):e2403072121,NATL ACAD SCIENCES
摘要：Homogenous advanced oxidation processes (AOPs) based on transition metal catalysts toward the activation of H2O2 to hydroxyl radical (center dot OH) have been widely applied to organic pollutants removal, such as Fenton and Fenton- like processes. These transition metal catalysts mostly flocculate as the pH increases. It's worth noting that the formed transition metal flocs are complex heterogeneous aggregations with active substances, providing diverse reaction spaces and interfaces. However, it is a challenge to distinguish the roles of transition metal flocs in the organic pollutants removal from homogeneous catalytic reactions. Herein, we unveiled a pathway for the long- lasting removal of organic pollutants via Cr flocs adsorbed with center dot OH (HO center dot-Cr flocs) using a stepwise method. First, adsorbed center dot OH (center dot OHads) within the HO center dot-Cr flocs was proved to be the active site forming hydrogen bond (H- bond) and van der Waals force with organic pollutants. Then, the presence of switchable electron transfer between Cr and OH groups within the HO center dot-Cr flocs was revealed, contributing to the persistent existence of center dot OHads and consequently ensuring the long- lasting organics removal. Further, this removal pathway of organic pollutants was confirmed during the leather wastewater treatment. These findings will complement a different pathway for organic pollutants removal via transition metal flocs and extend the lifetime of homogeneous AOPs based on transition metal catalysts, providing significant implications for their design and optimization.
[197] Zimu Wei,Jence T. Mulder,Rajeev K. Dubey ,等.Tuning the Driving Force for Charge Transfer in Perovskite–Chromophore Systems[J].The Journal of Physical Chemistry C,2023,127 (31):15406-15415,American Chemical Society
摘要：Understanding the interplay between the kinetics and energetics of photophysical processes in perovskite–chromophore hybrid systems is crucial for realizing their potential in optoelectronics, photocatalysis, and light-harvesting applications. By combining steady-state optical characterizations and transient absorption spectroscopy, we have investigated the mechanism of interfacial charge transfer (CT) between colloidal CsPbBr3nanoplatelets (NPLs) and surface-anchored perylene derivatives and have explored the possibility of controlling the CT rate by tuning the driving force. The CT driving force was tuned systematically by attaching acceptors with different electron affinities and by varying the bandgap of NPLs via thickness-controlled quantum confinement. Our data show that the charge-separated state is formed by selectively exciting either the electron donors or acceptors in the same system. Upon exciting attached acceptors, hole transfer from perylene derivatives to CsPbBr3NPLs takes place on a picosecond time scale, showing an energetic behavior in line with the Marcus normal regime. Interestingly, such energetic behavior is absent upon exciting the electron donor, suggesting that the dominant CT mechanism is energy transfer followed by ultrafast hole transfer. Our findings not only elucidate the photophysics of perovskite–molecule systems but also provide guidelines for tailoring such hybrid systems for specific applications.
[198] N.K. Timofeyuk,L. Moschini,M. Gómez-Ramos .Single-particle spectroscopic strength from nucleon transfer reactions with a three-nucleon force contribution[J].Physics Letters B,2023,839 ,Elsevier Science
摘要：The direct reaction theory widely used to study single-particle spectroscopic strength in nucleon transfer experiments is based on a Hamiltonian with two-nucleon interactions only. We point out that in reactions with a loosely-bound projectile, where clustering and breakup effects are important, an additional three-body force arises due to three-nucleon (3N) interaction between two nucleons belonging to different clusters in the projectile and a target nucleon. We study the effects of this force on nucleon transfer in (d,p) and (d,n) reactions on 56Ni, 48Ca, 26mAl and 24O targets at deuteron incident energies between 4 and 40 MeV/nucleon. Deuteron breakup is treated exactly within a continuum discretized coupled-channel approach. It was found that an additional three-body force can noticeably alter the angular distributions at forward angles, with consequences for spectroscopic factors' studies. Additional study of transfer to 2p continuum in the 25F(p,2p)24O reaction, involving the same overlap function as in the 24O(d,n)25F case, revealed that 3N force affects the (d,n) and (p,2p) reactions in a similar way, increasing the cross sections and decreasing spectroscopic factors, although its influence at the main peak of (p,2p) is weaker. The angle-integrated cross sections are found to be less sensitive to the 3N force contribution, they increase by less than 20%. Including 3N interactions in nucleon removal reactions makes an essential step towards bringing together nuclear structure theory, where 3N force is routinely used, and nuclear direct reaction theory, based on two-nucleon interactions only.
[199] Yi SUN,Shichao LI,Hongli GAO ,等.Transfer learning: A new aerodynamic force identification network based on adaptive EMD and soft thresholding in hypersonic wind tunnel[J].Chinese Journal of Aeronautics,2023,36 (8):351-365,Elsevier B.V.
摘要：The aerodynamic test in the pulse combustion wind tunnel is very important for the design, evaluation and optimization of aerodynamic characteristics of the hypersonic *** test accuracy even affects the success or failure of hypersonic aircraft development. In the aerodynamic test of pulse combustion wind tunnel, the aerodynamic signal is disturbed by the inertial force signal, which seriously affects the test accuracy of aerodynamic force. Aiming at the above problems, this paper innovatively proposes an aerodynamic intelligent identification method, that is the transfer learning network based on adaptive Empirical Modal Decomposition(EMD) and Soft Thresholding(TLN-AE&ST). Compared with the existing aerodynamic intelligent identification model based on deep learning technology, this study introduces the transfer learning idea into the aerodynamic intelligent identification model for the first time. The TLN-AE&ST effectively alleviates the problem of scarcity of training samples for intelligent models due to the high cost of wind tunnel tests, and provides a new idea for further implementation of deep learning technology in the field of wind tunnel aerodynamic testing. And this study designed residual attention block with soft threshold and dense block with adaptive EMD in TLN-AE&ST model. Residual attention block with soft threshold module can more effectively suppress the influence of instrument noise signal on model training effect. Dense block with adaptive EMD makes the deep learning model no longer a black box to a certain extent, and has certain physical significance. Finally, a series of wind tunnel tests were carried out in the Φ = 2.4 m pulse combustion wind tunnel of China Aerodynamic Research and Development Center to verify the effectiveness of TLN-AE&ST.
[200] Hu, Jialiang,Tang, Fujian,Li, Tianjiao ,等.A Strain Transfer Model for Detection of Pitting Corrosion and Loading Force of Steel Rebar with Distributed Fiber Optic Sensor[J].Sensors,2023,23 (19):8142,MDPI
摘要：Steel rebar corrosion is one of the predominant factors influencing the durability of marine and offshore reinforced concrete structures, resulting in economic loss and the potential threat to human safety. Distributed fiber optic sensors (DFOSs) have gradually become an effective method for structural health monitoring over the past two decades. In this work, a strain transfer model is developed between a steel rebar and a DFOS, considering pitting-corrosion-induced strain variation in the steel rebar. The Gaussian function is first adopted to describe the strain distribution near the corrosion pit of the steel rebar and then is substituted into the governing equation of the strain transfer model, and the strain distribution in the DFOS is analytically obtained. Tensile tests are also conducted on steel rebars with artificially simulated corrosion pits, which are used to validate the developed model. The results show that the Gaussian function can be used to describe the strain variation near a corrosion pit with a depth less than 50% of the steel rebar diameter, and the strain distribution in the DFOS analytically determined based on the developed strain transfer model agrees well with the tensile test results. The corrosion pit depth and loading force in the steel rebars estimated based on the proposed model agree well with the actual values, and therefore, the developed strain transfer model is effective in detecting pitting corrosion and loading force in steel rebars.